Page count: 22
Metadata: {'format': 'PDF 1.7', 'title': '', 'author': '', 'subject': '', 'keywords': '', 'creator': 'Adobe InDesign 15.0 (Macintosh)', 'producer': 'Adobe PDF Library 15.0', 'creationDate': "D:20200807112811+01'00'", 'modDate': "D:20200807112849+01'00'", 'trapped': '', 'encryption': None}
Measuring climate risk
in real estate portfolios
18
How COVID-19 could impact 
private real estate values
12
What’s driven capital growth 
in real estate portfolios?
05
Real Estate  
 
Research Snapshot
2020 Part 1

2
Introduction
t the start of the year I suggested that 
2020 may prove to be a watershed 
year in terms of the way investors 
consider real estate as an asset class. 
On the face of it, it seems that due to 
the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic I may have been 
right, albeit for entirely different reasons. 
No one could have predicted just how disruptive and 
broad-based the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic 
was going to be. However, the ensuing crisis does 
highlight how real estate is inextricably linked to 
other financial markets, the broader economy and 
society around it. These links are at the heart of the 
emerging trends we identified for 2020.
The emerging trends span a broad range of topics, 
each having the potential to have a profound 
impact on real estate investing. They all appear 
more relevant, rather than less so in the context of 
COVID-19. For instance, the first of the five trends 
focuses on Climate Risk. Some commentators have 
raised concerns that climate change may take a 
back seat whilst society grapples with coronavirus. 
However, our recent discussions with real estate 
asset owners and managers suggest increased 
focus on addressing climate change within their 
investment decision making processes. This 
increasing relevance runs right the way through 
to the fifth trend: Real Estate Doesn’t Exist in in a 
Vacuum. During periods of economic and financial 
market disruption, the performance of property 
portfolios have historically come under severe 
stress. Investors are thirsty for analysis and insight 
about what risk factors they are exposed to across 
their multi-asset portfolios and how these are 
driving their real estate returns as we navigate 
through this turning point.
A
WILL ROBSON
Executive 
Director,  
Global Head  
of Real Estate  
Solutions 
Research
Welcome to the MSCI Real Estate Research Snapshot: 
a compendium of the best applied research and 
thought pieces since the beginning of the year

3
Investors are thirsty for analysis and
insight about the risk factors they  
are exposed to
Whilst the nature of the research we have published 
through the first half of 2020 has tilted its focus 
toward the COVID-19 crisis, all the research in this 
snapshot still relate to the emerging trends we set 
out at the start of 2020: 
Climate risk: getting to the bottom line
From abstract to urgent; why climate risk is today’s 
priority even in the face of COVID-19...
Is your property portfolio fit for a society that is 
decarbonising? Have you considered how attractive 
your properties may be in a world experiencing 
climate change? Beyond protecting against acute, 
physical risks like wildfire, or even safe guarding 
for longer-term chronic risk, such as rising sea 
levels... climate change presents significant and 
perhaps more immediate transitional risk for real 
estate investors. Improved financial metrics can 
be essential to embed such risk analysis into 
investment decision making.
Places are for people:  
social impact investing 
Where do social impacts factor into your investment 
process? Inner-city regeneration projects can be 
beneficial for both investors and society, increasing 
local employment, or perhaps creating more 
affordable housing. On the flip-side… a city’s social 
issues effect their attractiveness to potential 
inhabitants and may influence asset returns. 
COVID-19 has only highlighted the relevance of public 
health resilience at city, state and national levels. 
The many dimensions of real estate risk
Top-down vs. bottom-up analysis:  
a meeting of minds…
You work hard to analyze and manage specific risks 
to your assets. But do you ever feel like you are 
only seeing half the picture? With real estate now 
occupying a greater slice of asset-class portfolios, 
investors may wish to monitor the effects of high-
level macro issues such as the economic impact 
of COVID-19 in tandem with asset-specific risk 
analysis to evaluate a fuller picture.
Beyond location, location, location
What lies beneath: there is more to real estate 
performance than location and purpose
Do physical asset and cash-flow characteristics 
factor into your top-down, strategy formation? 
Nonmarket performance drivers such as lease 
length or vacancy are often no longer considered 
idiosyncratic to individual assets and attributed 
to stock selection. With rental markets becoming 
weaker across many markets as a result of 
COVID-19, the systematic risk associated with lease 
length is becoming clearer. As increasing data is 
generated, and technology developed, many more 
drivers of performance beyond sector and geography 
will be measured and managed systematically.
Everything is relative,  
and only that is absolute
How market forces impact the asset  
and the portfolio...
When it comes to your real estate investments, 
context may be key to the perception of ‘good’ 
performance – especially during such turbulent 
times as we are now facing. What level of risk did 
you take? How much did the market buoy returns? 
How did the real estate help diversify the broader 
portfolio? Investors may seek answers to these 
questions by relative market analysis within and 
across asset classes. To do so, real estate investors 
may need to evolve to take their data and analytics 
to the next level. 
 

4
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
Contents
16
COVID-19 and real estate:  
the devil is in the dispersion
14
Real estate asset selection mattered  
— especially in a crisis
18
Measuring climate risk  
in real estate portfolios	
07
Real estate is about more than location  
during uncertain times
05
What’s driven capital growth  
in real estate portfolios?
10
What out-of-cycle write-downs  
may mean for real estate yields	
12
How could COVID-19 impact  
private real estate values?

5
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
What’s driven capital 
growth in real estate 
portfolios?
an investors really know what has driven the 
performance of real estate portfolios? Capital-
growth decomposition — i.e., breaking capital 
growth into drivers like yield movements and 
income growth — may help answer that question.
Capital growth helps tell the story  
of portfolio performance
Capital growth has historically been more volatile and 
less predictable than income return in MSCI’s private real 
estate indexes. For that reason, there is often a demand to 
better understand what has driven capital growth. Using a 
simulated portfolio of U.K. property assets and measuring 
its performance against the MSCI UK Quarterly Property 
Index, we demonstrate how capital-growth decomposition 
can shed light on the drivers of portfolio performance. 
In this exercise, we decomposed capital growth into four 
components based on equivalent yield.1
The first component, active-management impact, represents 
how much transactions and developments contributed to 
capital growth. Equivalent-yield impact shows how much the 
change in asset values was attributable to movements in 
equivalent yield. Income impact represents how much 
of the change in asset values came from growth in 
initial and expected rental income. (Added together, 
the equivalent-yield impact and income impact 
show the total change in asset values.) And the 
investment impact, the difference between 
asset-value growth and capital growth, 
equals the amount of capital expenditure 
reinvested in the hypothetical portfolio.
1
As this blog post examines a simulated 
U.K. portfolio, our decomposition is 
based on equivalent yield, the most 
commonly used yield in the 
U.K. market. Capital-growth 
decomposition could also  
be performed using  
other yields.
BRYAN REID 
Executive Director, 
Real Estate 
Solutions 
Research
C
5
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
	
] 
In real estate investing, 
capital growth has 
historically been more 
volatile and less predictable 
than income return and has 
therefore been responsible 
for most of the observed 
variability in total returns.
	
] 
Investors looking to monitor 
and evaluate their portfolio’s 
capital growth may use 
a suitable benchmark to 
calculate relative returns, 
which can help identify areas 
of under- or outperformance.
	
] 
Decomposing relative capital 
 
growth provided additional 
context that helped shed 
light on what has driven 
relative performance, and  
how much could be 
attributed to variables like 
yield compression  
and income growth.

6
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
In the example here (Exhibit 1), we observe that the 
simulated portfolio achieved higher capital growth 
than the benchmark over a three-year period ended 
September 2019. The drivers of capital growth in the 
portfolio also differed from those of the benchmark. 
For the benchmark, the largest driver was income 
impact; but in the simulated portfolio, it was 
equivalent-yield impact that provided the largest 
positive contribution. Active-management impact 
also played a bigger role for the portfolio than it did 
for the benchmark.
From these results we can infer that the 
hypothetical portfolio outperformed the market in 
terms of transaction and development activity, as 
well as in terms of equivalent-yield compression, 
but that income growth acted as a drag on relative 
performance. An investor reviewing these results 
may decide to increase their focus on income 
growth in the portfolio. The fact that the primary 
driver for the simulated portfolio was different from 
that of the benchmark provides a useful illustration 
of why it may not always make sense to try to 
explain the performance of a portfolio using broader 
market trends.
The story can differ within the portfolio
We next broke down the hypothetical portfolio and 
benchmark into consistent segmentations to delve 
even deeper into what drove relative capital growth 
for different parts of the portfolio (Exhibit 2). The 
exhibit segments properties by sector to show how 
the drivers of relative capital growth varied within 
the simulated portfolio. As the exhibit highlights, the 
impacts’ magnitudes and directions can vary, so it 
may be useful to understand these more granular 
trends. For example, unlike the overall portfolio, the 
office exposure actually outperformed in income 
growth, but did not benefit as much as the wider 
market from yield compression, suggesting that a 
different focus may be required for this part of the 
hypothetical portfolio.
As the results demonstrate, decomposing capital 
growth can show what has driven growth in a 
hypothetical portfolio, how those drivers compare to 
the wider market and whether there are differences 
within the portfolio. Given the important role that 
capital growth plays in real estate portfolios, capital-
growth decomposition may therefore be a useful 
part of a performance-benchmarking process. 
3.5%
3.0%
2.5%
2.0%
2.0%
1.5%
1.5%
1.0%
1.0%
0.5%
0.5%
-0.5%
-0.5%
-1.0%
-1.0%
Exhibit 1: Decomposing capital growth shows drivers of return
Exhibit 2: Segmenting portfolios for additional insight
3-year annualized return / impact
3-year annualized relative return / impact
0.0%
0.0%
6
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
Active management impact
Relative active management impact
Income impact (equivalent yield)
It may not always make sense to try to 
explain the performance of a portfolio 
using broader market trends
Relative income impact (equivalent yield)
Capital growth
Relative capital growth
Equivalent yield impact
Relative equivalent 
yield impact
Investment impact
Relative investment impact
A simulated U.K. real estate portfolio’s three-year annualized figures  
to September 2019. Source: MSCI Real Estate Enterprise Analytics
A simulated U.K. real estate portfolio’s three-year annualized figures  
to September 2019. Source: MSCI Real Estate Enterprise Analytics
Benchmark
All property
Retail
Office
Industrial
Portfolio
Relative
2%
0.5%
0.1%
0.5%
2.5%
-0.6%
1.3%

7
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
Real estate is about 
more than location 
during uncertain times
n 1956, California’s Van Nuys News 
proclaimed the three most important 
things about real estate to be location, 
location, location.1 In the 64 years 
since, asset-specific risk and high-level 
macro issues have become increasingly important 
considerations, as have understanding what drives 
risk and return in this complex and diverse asset 
class and how it correlates with others.
Fast-improving technology and the evolution 
of big data have meant that a higher volume of 
information can be processed more efficiently in 
helping investors understand risk and return drivers 
and aid portfolio construction. Lease structures and 
the quality of tenants have often been among the 
key drivers of growth and resilience of cash flows. 
This blog investigates the impact lease length has 
had on relative investment performance in both 
rising and declining markets. The ongoing global 
spread and negative impact of the novel coronavirus 
may be an example of a scenario where the 
significance of lease lengths could come to the fore.
Real estate investors’ white WALE?
Historically, past performance in real estate has 
primarily been explained in terms of property type 
and geographic exposure. But there are many other 
potential factors that can help explain real estate 
performance. Our analysis found that lease length 
has been one such cyclical factor.
I
7
	
] 
Investors often think of their real 
estate exposure in terms of property 
type and geography, but there are 
many other potential factors that 
may help explain performance.
	
] 
Our analysis shows lease length 
has historically been one such 
cyclical factor, with long leases 
having provided a performance 
boost during periods of weakening 
rental growth – an insight that may 
prove particularly relevant in today’s 
economic environment.
	
] 
Investors may wish to benchmark 
more than just property type and 
sector exposure.
NIEL HARMSE 
Senior Associate, 
Real Estate 
Solutions 
Research

8
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
The exhibit below shows the annual total return of 
the MSCI UK Quarterly Property Index segmented 
by remaining lease term. For the purposes of the 
analysis, shorter- and longer-lease properties are 
defined as those with a remaining lease term in the 
bottom and top quartiles per period, respectively.
Looking back to 2008, longer-lease real estate 
assets provided a performance boost during 
declining market periods, since properties with 
a longer weighted-average lease expiry (WALE) 
were likely to be more insulated from negative 
reversionary potential. On the flipside, longer-lease 
assets depressed returns during rising markets, as 
properties with a drawn-out expiration profile were 
less able to capture reversionary upside through 
active management intervention, compared to 
properties with a shorter WALE.
In the five-year period after the global financial 
crisis, long-lease properties in the U.K. delivered 
an annualized total return of 9.6%, compared to 
the 5.2% of shorter-lease properties. By contrast, 
in the period from the first quarter of 2014 to the 
second quarter of 2016, shorter-lease assets stole 
the limelight, courtesy of buoyant growth in market 
rentals. This came as the U.K. economy grew at its 
fastest rate for nine years in 2014. From the second 
quarter 2016 to fourth quarter 2019, longer-lease 
assets provided an extra 100 basis points (bps) in 
annual returns, aided by their reduced exposure to 
dilutionary lease events. Rental growth and returns 
were already weakening ahead of the coronavirus 
outbreak in the U.K., with longer leases beginning to 
outperform. We may see this trend accelerate as the 
pandemic begins to impact rental income (refer to 
chart below).
Exhibit 3: Longer leases were a boost during weakening markets but a drag during rising markets
UK quarterly property index – total return (annual). All property; standing investments; by lease length
-30%
-9%
10%
3%
-20%
-6%
20%
6%
-10%
-3%
30%
9%
0%
0%
Dec 08
Jun 18
Jun 19
Dec 18
Dec 19
Jun 10
Jun 13
Jun 15
Jun 11
Jun 16
Jun 12
Jun 14
Jun 17
Dec 10
Dec 15
Dec 11
Dec 13
Dec 16
Dec 12
Dec 14
Dec 17
Jun 09
Dec 09
Source: MSCI Real Estate Global Intel
Looking back to 2008, 
longer-lease real estate
assets provided a 
performance boost during
declining market periods
Long lease outperformance
Longer leases (upper quartile range)
Market rental growth (RH axis)
Short lease outperformance
Shorter leases (lower quartile range)

1 
Safire, W. ‘On Language: Location, Location, Location.’  
New York Times, Jun. 26, 2009.
2 According to the MSCI UK Quarterly Property Index
9
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
Lease length improved sector returns
After the U.K. Brexit referendum, industrial 
property in the U.K. has had a strong run, 
delivering an annualized total return of 13.2% 
from June 2016 to December 2019, compared 
to the retail property sector’s -0.3%.2 However, 
retail properties with actively managed lease 
lengths, the outcome would likely have been 
more favorable. Over the same analysis period, 
long-lease retail property delivered an annualized 
total return of 5.3%, 380 bps in excess of the 1.5% 
annual return of shorter-lease retail assets, as its 
exposure to negative rental reversions would have 
been more contained. By contrast, shorter-lease 
industrial assets, with an annualized total return 
of 14.9%, outperformed longer-lease industrial 
property, which produced an 11.3% annualized 
return, based on the latter’s higher exposure to 
accelerating market-rental growth.
The exhibit to the left shows the decomposition 
of the relative capital growth of long versus 
short leases for the retail and industrial sectors, 
annualized over various time periods. In more recent 
periods, much of the respective outperformance 
of shorter-leased industrial and longer-leased 
retail property was due to superior fundamental 
income growth as opposed to yield-compression-
driven capital growth. This suggests that the 
relative exposure to potential rental reversion may 
have been the more significant driver of relative 
performance during the analysis period.
Assessing performance from all angles
With real estate now occupying a greater slice 
of multi-asset-class portfolios, investors have 
been looking beyond inherent property attributes 
such as sector and location as the key drivers 
of investment performance. In the same way 
that factor analysis has helped explain more 
systematic drivers of performance in the broader 
equities market, a similar analysis might be made 
of real estate assets. Factors such as lease 
length, which were previously perceived to have 
been attributed to idiosyncratic risk and stock 
selection, may be more systematic drivers of 
return than previously thought.
There has always been a need to understand the 
drivers of risk and return in investment portfolios; 
but as investors face an increasingly uncertain 
COVID-19-impacted world, the more factors we 
can analyze to understand performance and help 
position portfolios, the better. 
Exhibit 4: Income growth mattered most
Decomposition of relative capital growth – 
performance of long leases over short leases
0%
1%
-1%
-2%
-3%
3%
6%
2%
5%
4%
7%
Income impact
Investment impact
Capital growth
Residual
Yield impact
Source: MSCI Real Estate Global Intel
Retail
1 year
3 years
Retail
Industrial
Industrial

1 0
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
What out-of-cycle  
write-downs may mean 
for real estate yields
s the COVID-19 pandemic continues 
to take its human toll and disrupt 
global economies, real estate 
investors have been seeking to 
understand what impact the crisis 
could have on their portfolios. Recently, several 
large Australian pension funds took the decision 
to do an out-of-cycle valuation write-down on 
their portfolios of up to 10%.¹ Using the Property 
Council of Australia/MSCI Australia Annual 
Property Index, we can investigate how a 10% 
write-down compares to past asset-value declines 
and what that might imply for yields under different 
scenarios for net-operating-income (NOI) growth.
Putting the 10% in historical context
The Property Council of Australia/MSCI Australia 
Annual Property Index dates back more than 30 
years, to December 1984 — yet there have been 
only two periods in which overall asset values 
declined during that time. The first was in the early 
1990s, when an economic recession and over-
supply caused asset values to fall 32% (between 
December 1989 and September 1993). The second 
was during the 2008 global financial crisis, when 
asset values declined 13% (between March 2008 
and December 2009).
During the early 1990s, we estimate that declines 
in NOI contributed approximately -6% to the fall 
in asset values, while repricing — as measured by 
increases in NOI yield — contributed approximately 
-27%. During the financial crisis, Australia’s overall 
economy was insulated from the worst effects by a 
natural-resources boom, which helped maintain GDP 
growth. As a result, NOI growth remained positive 
through the crisis, and we estimate that it provided 
a positive 5% contribution to asset-value growth in 
real estate portfolios. However, the disruption in 
financial markets saw NOI yield expand from 6.0% 
to 7.2%, contributing an estimated -17% to asset-
value growth.
In the context of these two past corrections, a 
10% write-down is more comparable to what was 
observed in the late 2000s; and if a 10% write-down 
were applied to the overall Property Council of 
Australia/MSCI Australia Annual Property Index, our 
models indicate that under the same parameters, 
values would return to levels last seen in late 2017.
A
BRYAN REID 
Executive Director, 
Real Estate 
Solutions 
Research
	
] 
Several Australian pension funds 
recently announced an out-of-cycle 
valuation adjustment to their real 
estate portfolios, writing down asset 
values by up to 10%.
	
] 
We extrapolated what this information 
could mean for Australian real estate 
yields under different income-growth 
scenarios and compared the results to 
past corrections.
	
] 
A 10% write-down in our scenarios 
could indicate that asset values 
return to levels last seen in late 
2017, but imply a relatively modest 
increase in yields compared to the 
global financial crisis or the early 
1990s recession.

1 
Mather, J. ‘Super funds slash the value of unlisted 
assets in ‘unique’ times.’ Australian Financial Review, 
March 24, 2020.
1 1
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
How would a 10% write-down 
affect yields in this model?
If we assume a 10% reduction in asset 
values, we can see what that could imply 
for NOI yields under different scenarios 
for NOI growth. In December 2019, NOI 
yields reached a record low of 5.0%, so 
a 10% reduction in asset values would 
imply an approximately 60-basis-point 
(bp) increase in yield, assuming no NOI 
growth under the same conditions. If, at 
the same time, NOI were to fall by 6% (as 
happened in the early 1990s), the implied 
increase in NOI yield would only be 
approximately 20 bps. But if NOI growth 
remains positive and grows at the same 
rate observed during the financial crisis, 
our test implied an increase in NOI yield 
of approximately 90 bps.
In all three test scenarios, NOI yields 
remain below 6% — still lower than 
before the financial crisis. Further, the 
increase in NOI yield, in absolute as well 
as proportional terms, remains lower 
than in past corrections.
The full impact of COVID-19 on 
real estate portfolios will take 
time to understand
As uncertainty over COVID-19 looms 
over global markets, we can’t determine 
what the full implications for real estate 
markets will be. We used historical 
data and scenario analysis to test 
different possible outcomes — and 
potentially gain a better sense of real 
estate portfolios’ sensitivities and risks. 
Understanding what changes in NOI 
growth or yield could imply for asset 
values, or vice versa, may help investors 
gain a clearer picture of the times ahead. 
Past corrections against different 10% write-down scenarios
Exhibit 5: Visualizing yield movements
5%
8%
7%
6%
9%
Historically observed NOI yield range
Start NOI yield
End NOI yield
Asset 
value 
growth
NOI 
growth
NOI yield 
impact
Start 
NOI yield
End  
NOI yield
Yield 
increase 
(bps)
Yield 
increase 
(%)
Write-down  
scenario 3
Write-down  
scenario 3
Write-down  
scenario 2
Write-down  
scenario 2
2008  
Financial Crisis
2008  
Financial Crisis
Write-down  
scenario 1
Write-down  
scenario 1
1990s 
recession
1990s 
recession
-32%
-27%
-6%
6.1%
8.4%
230
38%
-13%
-17%
5%
6.0%
7.2%
120
20%
-10%
-4%
-6%
5.0%
5.2%
20
4%
-10%
-10%
0%
5.0%
5.6%
60
12%
-10%
-15%
5%
5.0%
5.9%
90
18%
NOI yield

1 2
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
How COVID-19 could 
impact private real 
estate values
he COVID-19 pandemic has already 
had a notable impact on public equity 
markets, with the MSCI ACWI Index 
declining by just over 20% for the 
first quarter of 2020. By contrast, the 
impact on private markets such as real estate has 
been harder to establish. As a private asset class 
with lease structures and investment-hold periods 
that typically extend over multiple years, as well 
as a reliance on relatively infrequent appraisals, 
it has historically taken longer for adjustments to 
play out.1 However, real estate has not historically 
been immune to growth shocks. Discounted-
cash-flow (DCF) scenarios may help investors 
better understand the potential sensitivity of their 
portfolios to those shocks.
Defining and comparing  
discounted-cash-flow scenarios
To demonstrate this approach, we define several 
hypothetical scenarios in the MSCI Valuation 
Scenario Model and compare them against the 
result of a hypothetical base case. The MSCI 
Valuation Scenario Model is a DCF-based tool. It 
derives cash flows based on growth expectations 
over short, medium and long horizons, which follow 
an auto-regressive process with mean-reverting 
features and discounts forecast cash flows with 
the expected risk-free rate and risk premium. By 
comparing valuations from scenarios with varying 
projections for growth and discount rates, the model 
analyzes the impact of growth shocks and discount-
rate shocks on valuations.
BRYAN REID 
Executive Director, 
Real Estate 
Solutions 
Research 
YANG LIU
Executive Director, 
MSCI Research
T
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
	
] 
Longer investment horizons and a 
reliance on appraisals may mean that 
private real estate does not react to 
shocks as rapidly as public markets. 
However, this does not mean the asset 
class is immune to those shocks.
	
] 
As the COVID-19 pandemic continues 
to take its human toll and disrupt 
global economies, many real estate 
investors have been seeking to 
understand what impact the crisis 
could have on their portfolios.
	
] 
We used MSCI’s Valuation Scenario 
Model to show how discounted-cash-
flow models could be used to explore 
the impact the crisis could have on 
asset values. In the hypothetical 
scenarios we created, asset values 
declined between 13% and 37% 
highlighting how sensitive the outcomes 
can be to changes in assumptions.

1 3
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
Much of the media’s discussion to date has focused 
on the negotiations taking place between tenants 
and landlords and the potential for landlords to 
grant tenants relief in the form of rent deferral or 
rental holidays. For that reason, we have built our 
scenarios around these possibilities.
	
] 
In the base case, cash flows are assumed to 
grow at 3% per year and are discounted with a 
risk-free rate of 1% and a risk premium of 6%.
	
] 
In the first hypothetical scenario, we model a 
rent deferral where 95% of cash flows from 
the first six months are deferred. The risk-free 
rate falls to 50 basis points (bps), but the risk 
premium increases to 7%.
	
] 
In the second hypothetical scenario, we model 
a rent holiday with the same 95% reduction in 
cash flows over the first six months but the 
foregone income is not recovered. The risk-free 
rate falls 50 bps, but the risk premium increases 
to 7.5%.
	
] 
The final hypothetical scenario is the same as 
the rent holiday, but we model a more prolonged 
slowdown by reducing medium-term growth to 
2% and increasing the risk premium to 8%.
Compared to the base case, under the rent-deferral 
scenario, the model shows asset values falling 13%. 
In the rent-holiday scenario, the model shows asset 
values fall 24% and in the prolonged-slowdown 
scenario, according to the model, the implied asset 
value falls by 37%. The model also calculates a 
cash-flow impact and a discount-rate impact, with 
the former applying the base-case discount rate to 
the hypothetical scenarios’ cash flows and the latter 
applying the scenarios’ discount rate to the base-
case cash flows.
In the three hypothetical scenarios we’ve modeled 
in this analysis, the impact of the changes to cash 
flows on their own could result in asset-value 
declines between 2% and 13%. The changes to the 
risk-free rate and risk premiums in isolation implied a 
reduction in asset values of 12% to 28% (Exhibit 6).
One thing to note in this analysis is that, while much 
of the public discussion to date has focused on 
the potential short-term disruption to income, the 
cash-flow impacts from the rent-deferral and rent-
holiday scenarios, as modeled, are relatively small. 
Reductions to longer-term cash-flow expectations 
or changes to the discount rate had a much 
bigger impact on the results. This illustrates why 
some may want to consider what effects these 
variables could have on portfolios, in addition to the 
immediate disruptions to near-term cash flows.
Addressing uncertainty
With the situation evolving rapidly, there is still 
much uncertainty about how the crisis will impact 
the cash flows of real estate assets and financial-
market conditions.
The above scenarios are not meant to be predictions, 
but to illustrate how investors can use tools like 
the MSCI Valuation Scenario Model to explore 
how sensitive a portfolio might be to changes in 
assumptions about growth and discounting. This sort 
of approach could be applied to the overall portfolio, 
but also to different segments within a portfolio. 
For example, the office exposure could be analyzed 
separately to the retail exposure, or the analysis could 
be applied to individual assets. In defining scenarios 
for this kind of analysis, investors can draw on their 
own internal underwriting assumptions, but the use 
of historical market data may also be helpful. It could 
be used to either define scenarios based on previous 
shocks or contextualize the assumptions applied to 
the current crisis.2 
1 
For example, in 21 national market corrections we explored, the 
median peak-to-trough timing was 3.5 years. Reid, B. “What’s the 
downside in real estate?” MSCI Blog, Oct. 4, 2019.
2 
For an example of how historical data can be used to provide 
context to scenarios, see: Reid, B. “What out-of-cycle write-downs 
may mean for real estate yields.” MSCI Blog, April 3, 2020.
-25%
-20%
-30%
-35%
-40%
-45%
-10%
5%
-15%
0%
-5%
10%
Exhibit 6: Comparing the hypothetical scenarios to the base case  
shows the potential impact on asset values
Cash-flow impact
Discount-rate impact
Interaction
Total
1 3
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
Rent-deferral 
scenario
Rent-holiday 
scenario
Prolonged-slowdown 
scenario

1 4
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
Real estate asset 
selection mattered — 
especially in a crisis
eal estate, along with politics and 
sports, must be one of the world’s 
favorite obsessions. There is often 
plenty written about the wider 
trends shaping real estate markets 
and no shortage of opinions. In the current crisis 
this may be especially true. But real estate is a 
heterogeneous asset class: Every property is unique, 
and no two portfolios will provide the same returns.
Similar statements apply to individual real estate 
portfolios, which can be shaped by a number of 
specific factors that will influence performance 
relative to the broader market. The use of attribution 
analysis may help investors understand and 
communicate their relative performance, separating 
the impact of allocation differences from the impact 
of asset selection within those allocations, and 
providing the means to position performance within 
the context of wider market trends. Our analysis 
of historical allocation and selection scores from 
actual portfolios suggests that asset selection may 
have been a particularly important driver of relative 
performance, especially in times of crisis. With the 
COVID-19 pandemic expected to continue causing 
considerable disruption to real estate markets, 
attribution analysis may be a useful tool.
Attributing relative portfolio performance
Asset-level attribution analysis can help 
investors understand the reasons for a portfolio’s 
outperformance or underperformance versus 
an index. It breaks down the relative return into 
structure- and property-specific scores, allowing 
the influences of submarket allocations and asset 
selection to be distinguished.
Specifically, attribution analysis distinguishes 
that part of the relative return derived from the 
portfolio’s weightings in strong or weak sectors of 
the market (allocation), from that part derived from 
the performance of the assets in the portfolio within 
each segment of the market (selection).
Using data from 94 real portfolios we explored 
how allocation and selection scores contributed to 
relative returns between 2008 and 2019. Over the 
entire analysis period, selection accounted for 70% 
of the annual tracking error between portfolios and 
benchmarks, with its contribution ranging from a 
low of 60% in 2018 to a high of 78% in 2016.
R
BRYAN REID 
Executive Director, 
Real Estate 
Solutions 
Research 
	
] 
Analyzing 94 actual portfolios 
from 2008 and 2019, we find asset 
selection accounted for anywhere 
between 60% and 78% of tracking 
error between portfolios and 
benchmarks over any given year.
	
] 
During past market disruptions, such 
as the 2008 global financial crisis, 
variation in both allocation and 
selection increased, but the increase 
for selection was more pronounced.
	
] 
With the COVID-19 pandemic causing 
unprecedented disruption, attribution 
analysis may be a useful tool for 
helping investors understand and 
explain what drove returns in their  
real estate portfolios.

1 5
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
During periods of market stress like the 2008 global 
financial crisis, as the spread in relative returns 
between portfolios increased, we observed more 
variation in both allocation and selection scores. 
However, the increase tended to be greater for 
selection, meaning that it tended to account for 
more tracking error in these years.
Why the lower contribution  
from allocation?
One potential explanation for the lower contribution 
we observed from allocation could be that real 
portfolios are built and managed while referencing 
benchmark weightings that may constrain the 
allocation scores. Another explanation may lie in 
the construction of benchmark segmentations 
themselves. Traditionally, segmentations have 
been built along property type and geography lines, 
but underlying these groupings may be additional 
systematic drivers of return that could be used 
to construct alternative segmentations, which, if 
implemented, could potentially increase how much 
tracking error is explained by allocation.
Putting portfolios into  
a broader market context
As strategies become more sophisticated and 
investors demand more insight into the drivers 
of risk and return in their portfolios, attribution 
analysis may provide valuable insights. Our 
analysis showed that asset selection played 
an important role in driving the relative returns 
of real estate portfolios from 2008 to 2019, 
particularly during periods of disruption. With 
the COVID-19 pandemic causing unprecedented 
disruption, attribution analysis may be a useful 
tool for understanding and communicating the 
idiosyncratic aspects of portfolios. 
Exhibit 7: Selection accounted for 60% to 78% of observed tracking error in any given year
0%
0%
0%
-5%
-5%
-5%
5%
5%
5%
-10%
-10%
-10%
10%
10%
10%
0%
0%
0%
0%
-10%
-10%
-10%
-10%
10%
10%
10%
10%
APAC
EMEA
NA
2008
2012
2016
2010
2014
2018
2009
2013
2017
2011
2015
2019
Selection
Allocation

1 6
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
COVID-19 and real 
estate: the devil is 
in the dispersion
s the old adage goes, economic 
expansions don’t die of old age. 
This most recent expansion is no 
different. Many real estate markets 
were showing signs of a slowdown 
before anyone had heard of social distancing. But 
the COVID-19 crisis seems to have been this cycle’s 
grim reaper.
Has this correction been similar to previous ones? 
The 2008 global financial crisis (GFC) is an obvious 
comparison due to its global nature. The GFC was 
marked by synchronized declines across real estate 
sectors. That decline stands in stark contrast to 
today’s performance landscape, where long-running 
structural changes to the use of retail and industrial 
space have caused very different investment 
outcomes over recent years. The more recent impact 
of COVID-19 has merely accelerated these trends.
What remains similar, though, is that the dispersion 
of returns within underperforming sectors, such as 
retail, is widening. This cross-sectional dispersion of 
returns highlights the importance of asset selection 
and taking a more granular analysis of performance 
within segments and sectors. This way, real estate 
investors can better understand potential drivers of 
returns. To illustrate, we looked at data from four 
markets in different global regions: the U.S., U.K., 
Netherlands and Australia.
COVID-19: a secular or pervasive  
crisis for real estate?
Real estate returns began declining more sharply 
when COVID-19 started affecting global markets. As 
we’ve noted, its real estate impact has been more 
localized, unlike during the GFC. The key difference: 
The drop in asset-value growth and widening 
performance dispersion have so far been more 
sector-specific, with retail the hardest hit, as can be 
seen in the following exhibit (Exhibit 8).
A combination of reduced overall consumer 
spending, mandatory lockdowns in scores of 
countries and significant uncertainty about the 
future of the sector weighed heavily on retail-
property valuations. The interquartile range¹ in 
the following charts highlights how periods of 
high uncertainty may be reflected in increased 
dispersion of returns, whether with broad co-
movement of sectors and geographies, as we 
saw during the GFC, or on a localized basis. (For 
example, the U.K. experienced a wider returns 
dispersion after the Brexit referendum in June 
2016.) The current widening of the interquartile 
range echoes the GFC insofar as that such wide 
dispersions, even limited to certain sectors or 
geographies, have been uncommon outside 
periods of significant market volatility. And it 
reminds us that, on an asset level, real estate 
performance can be highly varied during periods  
of heightened uncertainty.
FRITZ LOUW 
Senior Associate, 
Real Estate 
Solutions 
Research
NIEL HARMSE 
Senior Associate, 
Real Estate 
Solutions 
Research
A
1 6
	
] 
The recent market turmoil has 
resembled the 2008 global financial 
crisis and other volatile periods, in 
that we have observed a widening of 
the dispersion of returns across real 
estate assets.
	
] 
This widening spread has been most 
pronounced in retail property — a 
sector that was under pressure long 
before the COVID-19 pandemic — 
particularly in the U.K.
	
] 
Given the increased dispersion of 
returns, institutional investors may 
wish to pay closer attention to asset 
selection and conduct more granular 
performance analysis.

1 7
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
It is important to note that the weakness in retail 
real estate predates the COVID-19 crisis. In all four 
markets we examined, asset-value growth in retail 
either peaked before the GFC or briefly surged 
during the subsequent recovery (in the U.K.) before 
embarking on its secular decline. In recent years 
we’ve seen that the interquartile range of asset-
value growth tends to spike when that growth 
reaches a turning point or approaches zero. This 
seems relatively more pronounced for the retail 
sector. The relative weakness of retail versus other 
sectors is common across all four markets — and 
has been for quite some time.
The devil is in the dispersion
We are still in the early days of seeing how 
COVID-19 may play out for real estate. The data 
we used in this analysis was limited to the end of 
first quarter of 2020. Many lockdowns didn’t start 
until March, and it remains to be seen how variants 
of continued lockdown across the globe impacted 
each of the property sectors.
What is, however, clear is that COVID-19 has 
already had an unequal impact on asset classes, 
geographies and sectors. If the individual assets 
or property types (e.g., shopping malls in retail) 
were more uniform within a given sector, one might 
expect that sector’s overall returns to vary over 
time; but one would not expect dramatic shifts in 
the dispersion of returns, as we have seen during 
uncertain times.
In reality, we know that individual real estate 
assets vary along many dimensions (income 
duration, exposure to tenant industries and their 
credit strength, to name just a few). Each of these 
characteristics may determine how quickly and to 
what extent the assets’ returns are impacted by 
broader market movements like those created  
by COVID-19.
A widening performance dispersion within 
real estate sectors and geographies reminds 
us that not all assets are created equal within 
these broader classifications. In particular, it is 
a reminder that asset selection has long played 
an important role in the real estate investment 
process — and that an in-depth analysis of more 
granular data, at the sub-sector or even asset level, 
can help investors understand the factors that 
really drove performance. 
1 
Interquartile range is the difference between the 75th and 25th 
percentiles of a distribution.
-20%
10%
10%
-40%
-10%
20%
-30%
0%
0%
5%
15%
20%
25%
Exhibit 8: Asset-value growth slowed and dispersion widened, especially in retail
Mar-00
Mar-00
Mar-00
Mar-00
Mar-05
Mar-05
Mar-05
Mar-05
Mar-10
Mar-10
Mar-10
Mar-10
Retail
Office
Industrial
Mar-15
Mar-15
Mar-15
Mar-15
All sectors excluding retail 
Mar-20
Mar-20
Mar-20
Mar-20
Asset value growth
Asset value growth:
interquartile range
We are still in the early days of seeing 
how COVID-19 may play out for real estate
Source: MSCI Real Estate
Australia
Netherlands
USA
UK

1 8
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
any assets investors own can only 
figuratively be underwater when a 
company becomes insolvent or a 
stock loses all its value. But for real 
estate, with long-life fixed assets, there 
is — literally — a real possibility a building might 
one day be underwater because of climate change. 
Given this, investors in real estate may benefit from 
a better understanding of potential physical and 
transition risks. 
Using the MSCI Real Estate Climate Value-at-Risk 
(Climate VaR) model we demonstrate how the 
nature and magnitude of physical risks may differ 
across assets and portfolios; and highlight the 
importance of considering transition risk.1
The different types of climate risk
In general, climate risk considerations in real 
estate can be divided into two categories, physical 
risk and transition risk (also known as regulatory 
risk). Physical risks are related to the damage to 
buildings from extreme weather events caused 
by climate change. These changing weather 
patterns could cause both chronic (steady long-
term) and acute (severe short-term) effects that 
can vary depending on geographic location and 
could increase the costs faced by investors. 
Transition risks could arise from efforts to address 
climate change and the transition to a low-carbon 
economy. They are based on the carbon intensity 
of the assets and estimate the potential costs of 
meeting carbon-reduction targets.
Both physical and transition risk can be assessed 
under different scenarios. When combined they 
can provide an estimate of how much of the capital 
value in a real estate portfolio may be at risk due to 
climate change. However, investors may still need 
to drill down into the specific hazard exposures 
and how financially significant any associated 
costs could be to fully understand the investment 
implications of climate risk.
	
] 
As a long-term asset class 
with fixed asset locations, 
private real estate may be 
especially vulnerable to both 
physical and transition risks 
from climate change. 
	
] 
Real estate portfolios may 
be exposed to a variety of 
physical risks that could 
impact values. Our analysis 
found that different potential 
risks may require different 
mitigation strategies.
	
] 
As the world moves towards 
a low-carbon economy, 
transition risk may also play 
an increasingly important role 
with investors facing potential 
costs from emission-reduction 
requirements.
M
BRYAN REID 
Executive Director, 
Real Estate 
Solutions 
Research 
Measuring climate risk 
in real estate portfolios

1 9
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
Not all physical risks are the same
We used the MSCI Real Estate Climate VaR model 
and a sample of 671 assets from the MSCI U.S. 
Annual Property Index to evaluate two particularly 
impactful physical risks: Coastal flooding and 
tropical storms (Exhibit 9). All the assets sampled 
were from either the New York City, North New 
Jersey, Long Island (NY, NNJ, LI) metropolitan area 
or the Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Pompano Beach 
(South Florida) metropolitan area. Each were run 
under the model’s default assumptions. 
The results suggested that, for this sample of 
institutionally owned assets, the total Climate 
VaR due to coastal flooding was lower than for 
tropical storms in both regions. However, there 
was some difference in the relative size of these 
two types of physical risks. In this sample, the 
Climate VaR from coastal flooding was lower in 
South Florida than in NY, NNJ, LI (-0.7% vs. -1.3%), 
but the Climate VaR from tropical storm exposure 
was higher (-5.3% vs. -4.0%).
Another distinction was how the different physical 
risks were distributed across the asset sample. 
For coastal flooding, we observed that only a 
handful of assets with the highest exposure were 
responsible for nearly all (91%) of the estimated 
Climate VaR. By contrast, the Climate VaR caused 
by exposure to tropical storms was more evenly 
distributed across the sample, as illustrated in the 
second chart (Exhibit 10).
This is unsurprising given that there can be 
considerable variation in the elevation of 
individual assets even within a relatively 
small geographic area, and this can 
largely drive how much coastal flooding 
risk they are exposed to. The relatively 
small number of assets that are exposed, 
however, typically suffer significant 
damage, leading to a more substantial 
contribution to total portfolio risk. By 
contrast, tropical storms affect broader areas 
more uniformly, so the potential damage is 
generally more evenly distributed. This illustrates 
how mitigation strategies may vary by risk type. For 
instance, careful asset selection may be a way to 
minimize coastal flooding risk, but market allocation 
strategies may help as a way to address risk from 
tropical storm exposure.
Source: MSCI Real Estate Climate Value-at-Risk model run on a sample 
of assets from the MSCI U.S. Annual Property Index. Index data as of 
December 2019 and model run as of July 3, 2020.
Source: MSCI Real Estate Climate Value-at-Risk model run on a sample 
of assets from the MSCI U.S. Annual Property Index. Index data as at 
December 2019 and model run as of July 3, 2020.
Exhibit 10: Physical climate risks may not  
be evenly spread across all assets
Exhibit 9: The magnitude and relative importance  
of physical risks can differ
Worst affected assets (top 5%)
South Florida
Coastal flooding
Tropical storms
Rest of assets
New York / North New Jersey / Long Island
The nature and magnitude 
of physical risks may differ 
across assets and portfolios
91%
4%
Share of VaR 
due to coastal 
flooding
Share of VaR 
due to tropical 
storms
0%
-1%
-3%
-5%
-2%
-4%
-6%

2 0
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
Transition risk may also be a consideration
While there may be a temptation to focus on physical 
risks for real assets, transition risk may play an 
increasingly important role as well. As the world 
moves towards a low-carbon economy, there are 
several potential emissions pathways available, 
with the required emissions reduction for each 
pathway being inversely proportional to the amount 
of warming. For example, limiting warming to 1.5 
degrees Celsius would require more drastic cuts than 
a 2 degrees Celsius scenario which would in turn 
require more cuts than a 3 degrees Celsius scenario. 
To illustrate how transition risks may vary, we used 
the same sample of assets to estimate transition 
VaR under different scenarios. As we expected, the 
more aggressive reduction requirements under a 
1.5 degrees Celsius scenario resulted in the highest 
VaR at 4.0%, but even under a 2 degrees Celsius 
scenario, up to 1.4% of the value in these assets 
was estimated to be at risk from transition costs, 
according to our model (Exhibit 11).
Irrespective of what pathway is taken, assets and 
portfolios with higher carbon intensity could face 
greater reduction requirements over the coming 
decades, potentially translating into higher transition 
costs. When those costs are compared to an asset’s 
value per square meter, it becomes clear that some 
assets may also be better positioned to absorb 
those costs. 
Given real estate’s long-term nature and fixed 
locations, the asset class may be particularly 
vulnerable to climate change. By evaluating their 
real estate portfolios in terms of different physical 
risks as well as under different transition-risk 
scenarios, investors may be able to build a more 
complete picture of their exposure. 
1 
The MSCI Real Estate Climate VaR model provides a framework for 
investors (investment managers, asset owners, banks and insurers) 
to improve portfolio performance, risk management, regulatory 
reporting and progress towards broader sustainability goals. 
Developed by MSCI’s Climate Risk Center in Zurich, the framework is 
closely aligned to the G20’s Financial Stability Board’s Taskforce on 
Climate-Related Disclosures (TCFD).
2 
More information on the model can be found in the MSCI Real 
Estate Climate Value-at-Risk (Climate VaR) Methodology document.
Exhibit 11: Transition VaR for the asset sample  
(NY / NNJ / LI / South Florida) under different scenarios 
-3.5%
-3.0%
-5.5%
-2.5%
-5.0%
-2.0%
-4.5%
-1.5%
-4.0%
-1.0%
-0.5%
0.0%
3° scenario
2° scenario
1.5° scenario
Climate VaR
Transition risk
There can be considerable 
variation in the elevation of 
individual assets even within 
a small geographic area
Source: MSCI Real Estate Climate Value-at-Risk model run on a sample  
of assets from the MSCI U.S. Annual Property Index. Index data as at  
December 2019 and model run as of July 3, 2020.

2 1
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
2 1
A M E R I C A S
Canada	
+ 1 416 687 6284
U.S.	
+ 1 212 804 3900
E U R O P E ,  M I D D L E  E A S T  
&  A F R I C A
U.K.	
+ 44 20 7336 9200
France 	
+ 44 20 7336 4783
Germany 	
+ 49 691 3385 900
Italy	
+ 44 20 7336 9684
Spain 	
+ 34 93 467 7403
South Africa	
+ 27 11 656 2115
Sweden 	
+ 46 8 400 252 30
A S I A  PA C I F I C
Australia	
+ 61 2 9033 9300
Hong Kong	
+ 852 2844 9333
Singapore	
+ 65 6826 9339
Japan	
+ 81 3 5211 1455
A B O U T  M S C I
MSCI is a leading provider of critical 
decision support tools and services for 
the global investment community. With 
over 45 years of expertise in research, 
data and technology, we power better 
investment decisions by enabling clients 
to understand and analyze key drivers 
of risk and return and confidently build 
more effective portfolios. We create 
industry-leading research-enhanced 
solutions that clients use to gain insight 
into and improve transparency across 
the investment process.
To learn more, please visit  
 
www.msci.com/real-estate
msci.com/real-estate
@msci
msci-real-estate
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
Contact us

2 2
M S C I
R E A L  E S T A T E  R E S E A R C H  S N A P S H O T  2 0 2 0  H 1
This document and all of the information contained in it, including without 
limitation all text, data, graphs, charts (collectively, the “Information”) is the 
property of MSCI Inc. or its subsidiaries (collectively, “MSCI”), or MSCI’s 
licensors, direct or indirect suppliers or any third party involved in making 
or compiling any Information (collectively, with MSCI, the “Information 
Providers”) and is provided for informational purposes only. The 
Information may not be modified, reverse-engineered, reproduced or 
redisseminated in whole or in part without prior written permission from 
MSCI. All rights in the Information are reserved by MSCI and/or its 
Information Providers.The Information may not be used to create 
derivative works or to verify or correct other data or information. For 
example (but without limitation), the Information may not be used to 
create indexes, databases, risk models, analytics, software, or in 
connection with the issuing, offering, sponsoring, managing or marketing 
of any securities, portfolios, financial products or other investment vehicles 
utilizing or based on, linked to, tracking or otherwise derived from the 
Information or any other MSCI data, information, products or services.The 
user of the Information assumes the entire risk of any use it may make or 
permit to be made of the Information. NONE OF THE INFORMATION 
PROVIDERS MAKES ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR 
REPRESENTATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION (OR THE 
RESUL
TS TO BE OBTAINED BY THE USE THEREOF), AND TO THE 
MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EACH 
INFORMATION PROVIDER EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OF ORIGINALITY, ACCURACY, TIMELINESS, NON-
INFRINGEMENT, COMPLETENESS, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS 
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE) WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE 
INFORMATION.Without limiting any of the foregoing and to the maximum 
extent permitted by applicable law, in no event shall any Information 
Provider have any liability regarding any of the Information for any direct, 
indirect, special, punitive, consequential (including lost profits) or any other 
damages even if notified of the possibility of such damages. The foregoing 
shall not exclude or limit any liability that may not by applicable law be 
excluded or limited, including without limitation (as applicable), any liability 
for death or personal injury to the extent that such injury results from the 
negligence or willful default of itself, its servants, agents or sub-
contractors.Information containing any historical information, data or 
analysis should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of any future 
performance, analysis, forecast or prediction. Past performance does not 
guarantee future results.The Information should not be relied on and is not 
a substitute for the skill, judgment and experience of the user, its 
management, employees, advisors and/or clients when making 
investment and other business decisions. All Information is impersonal 
and not tailored to the needs of any person, entity or group of persons.
None of the Information constitutes an offer to sell (or a solicitation of an 
offer to buy), any security, financial product or other investment vehicle or 
any trading strategy.It is not possible to invest directly in an index. 
Exposure to an asset class or trading strategy or other category 
represented by an index is only available through third party investable 
instruments (if any) based on that index. MSCI does not issue, sponsor, 
endorse, market, offer, review or otherwise express any opinion regarding 
any fund, ETF, derivative or other security, investment, financial product or 
trading strategy that is based on, linked to or seeks to provide an 
investment return related to the performance of any MSCI index 
(collectively, “Index Linked Investments”). MSCI makes no assurance that 
any Index Linked Investments will accurately track index performance or 
provide positive investment returns. MSCI Inc. is not an investment adviser 
or fiduciary and MSCI makes no representation regarding the advisability 
of investing in any Index Linked Investments.Index returns do not represent 
the results of actual trading of investible assets/securities. MSCI maintains 
and calculates indexes, but does not manage actual assets. Index returns 
do not reflect payment of any sales charges or fees an investor may pay to 
purchase the securities underlying the index or Index Linked Investments. 
The imposition of these fees and charges would cause the performance of 
an Index Linked Investment to be different than the MSCI index 
performance.The Information may contain back tested data. Back-tested 
performance is not actual performance, but is hypothetical. There are 
frequently material differences between back tested performance results 
and actual results subsequently achieved by any investment strategy.
Constituents of MSCI equity indexes are listed companies, which are 
included in or excluded from the indexes according to the application of 
the relevant index methodologies. Accordingly, constituents in MSCI equity 
indexes may include MSCI Inc., clients of MSCI or suppliers to MSCI. 
Inclusion of a security within an MSCI index is not a recommendation by 
MSCI to buy, sell, or hold such security, nor is it considered to be 
investment advice.Data and information produced by various affiliates of 
MSCI Inc., including MSCI ESG Research LLC and Barra LLC, may be 
used in calculating certain MSCI indexes. More information can be found 
in the relevant index methodologies on www.msci.com.MSCI receives 
compensation in connection with licensing its indexes to third parties. 
MSCI Inc.’s revenue includes fees based on assets in Index Linked 
Investments. Information can be found in MSCI Inc.’s company filings on 
the Investor Relations section of www.msci.com.MSCI ESG Research 
LLC is a Registered Investment Adviser under the Investment Advisers 
Act of 1940 and a subsidiary of MSCI Inc. Except with respect to any 
applicable products or services from MSCI ESG Research, neither MSCI 
nor any of its products or services recommends, endorses, approves or 
otherwise expresses any opinion regarding any issuer, securities, 
financial products or instruments or trading strategies and MSCI’s 
products or services are not intended to constitute investment advice or 
a recommendation to make (or refrain from making) any kind of 
investment decision and may not be relied on as such. Issuers 
mentioned or included in any MSCI ESG Research materials may include 
MSCI Inc., clients of MSCI or suppliers to MSCI, and may also purchase 
research or other products or services from MSCI ESG Research. MSCI 
ESG Research materials, including materials utilized in any MSCI ESG 
Indexes or other products, have not been submitted to, nor received 
approval from, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission 
or any other regulatory body.Any use of or access to products, services 
or information of MSCI requires a license from MSCI. MSCI, Barra, 
RiskMetrics, IPD and other MSCI brands and product names are the 
trademarks, service marks, or registered trademarks of MSCI or its 
subsidiaries in the United States and other jurisdictions. The Global 
Industry Classification Standard (GICS) was developed by and is the 
exclusive property of MSCI and Standard & Poor’s. “Global Industry 
Classification Standard (GICS)” is a service mark of MSCI and Standard & 
Poor’s.MIFID2/MIFIR notice: MSCI ESG Research LLC does not distribute 
or act as an intermediary for financial instruments or structured deposits, 
nor does it deal on its own account, provide execution services for others 
or manage client accounts. No MSCI ESG Research product or service 
supports, promotes or is intended to support or promote any such 
activity. MSCI ESG Research is an independent provider of ESG data, 
reports and ratings based on published methodologies and available to 
clients on a subscription basis. We do not provide custom or one-off 
ratings or recommendations of securities or other financial instruments 
upon request. Privacy notice: For information about how MSCI collects 
and uses personal data, please refer to our Privacy Notice at https://
www.msci.com/privacy-pledge.NO REGULATED USE OF ANY MSCI 
PRIVATE REAL ASSETS INDEXES IN ANY JURISDICTION IS PERMITTED 
WITHOUT MSCI’S EXPRESS WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION. THE PROCESS 
FOR APPLYING FOR MSCI’S EXPRESS WRITTEN AUTHORIZATION CAN 
BE FOUND ON THE INDEX REGULATION PAGE OF MSCI’S WEBSITE AT: 
https://www.msci.com/index-regulation.

