Page count: 41
Metadata: {'format': 'PDF 1.5', 'title': 'Corporate Events Methodology Book', 'author': 'MSCI', 'subject': '', 'keywords': '', 'creator': 'Microsoft® Office Word 2007', 'producer': 'Microsoft® Office Word 2007', 'creationDate': 'D:20120813105430', 'modDate': 'D:20120813105430', 'trapped': '', 'encryption': None}
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
msci.com 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
Guiding Principles and Methodology for Corporate Events Implementation in 
the MSCI Equity Indices 
 
August 2012

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
2 of 41 
Table of contents 
 
Section 1: Introduction .............................................................. 4 
Section 2: Mergers & Acquisitions (M&As) .............................. 6 
2.1 Treatment of M&As in the MSCI Universe..................................................... 
6 
2.2 Late Announcements of the Completion of M&As 
....................................... 
9 
2.3 Conversions of Share Classes 
........................................................................ 10 
2.4 Pro Forma Float Calculation for M&As ....................................................... 10 
2.5 Spin-Offs 
.......................................................................................................... 11 
2.6 Historical Links and PAFs 
............................................................................... 12 
Section 3: Corporate Actions ................................................... 13 
3.1 Splits / Reverse Splits /Consolidations ......................................................... 13 
3.2 Stock Dividends / Bonus Issues 
..................................................................... 13 
3.3 Capital Repayments ...................................................................................... 14 
3.4 Special Cash Dividends .................................................................................. 15 
3.5 Rights Issues ................................................................................................... 15 
3.6 Redemptions .................................................................................................. 18 
Section 4: Other Events Resulting in Changes in Number of 
Shares and FIFs and/or DIFs .................................................... 19 
4.1 Share Placements and Offerings 
.................................................................. 19 
4.2 Debt-to-Equity Swaps 
.................................................................................... 21 
4.3 Optional Dividends ........................................................................................ 21 
Section 5: Suspensions, Delisting and Bankruptcies............... 23 
Section 6: IPOs and Other Early Inclusions ............................. 24 
Section 7: General Announcement Policy for Corporate Events25 
7.1 Client Announcements .................................................................................. 25 
7.2 Public Announcements ................................................................................. 27 
Appendix I: PAF Formulas and Definitions 
.............................. 29 
Appendix II: Implementation Dates for Corporate Events..... 33 
Appendix III: Corporate Events Occurring on Saturdays and 
Sundays .................................................................................... 34 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
3 of 41 
Appendix IV: Guidelines Concerning Implementation of Partial 
Tender Offers ........................................................................... 35 
Appendix V: Clarification Regarding Effective Dates in Option 
P, Q, T, US Announcements 
..................................................... 37 
Appendix VI: Announcement Status and Timing ................... 38 
Appendix VII: Additional Corporate Events Rules Applying to 
the MSCI Global Investable Market Indices 
............................ 39 
Client Service Information is Available 24 Hours a Day ....................................... 41 
Notice and Disclaimer 
.............................................................................................. 41 
About MSCI 
............................................................................................................... 41 
 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
4 of 41 
Section 1: Introduction 
 
This methodology book describes MSCI’s general maintenance policies and detailed guidelines for the 
implementation of corporate events affecting securities across all the MSCI Equity Indices and products. 
While each MSCI Indices has its own separate index construction and maintenance methodology, MSCI 
endeavors to develop and maintain a set of corporate event implementation rules that are as generic as 
possible and that can apply to any equity security included in the MSCI universe, regardless of the 
specific indices or products the security may belong to. Unless otherwise stated the policies and 
guidelines apply therefore to all securities in the MSCI universe. 
 
MSCI strives to maintain all companies and securities in its Equity Indices and products with the 
objective of reflecting, on a timely basis, the evolution of the underlying equity markets. In maintaining 
the MSCI Equity Indices, MSCI adheres to the guiding principles set forth in the MSCI Equity Indices 
Methodology Books, including the consistent application of its methodology over time, across regions, 
and for developed and emerging markets alike. Of particular relevance in the design and maintenance of 
MSCI’s Corporate Events Methodology are the principles of replicability, consistency, continuity and 
minimizing turnover. These principles imply that the perspective of portfolios replicating the various 
indices must systematically be taken into account in the implementation of each corporate event. In 
particular the consistency of approach should ensure that similar events should as much as possible be 
given the same treatment and hence facilitate predictability of changes. Also, no unnecessary turnover 
should result from the implementation of corporate events. Obviously, some corporate events are very 
complex with many considerations coming into play, and there is a fine balance to be found between 
potentially conflicting implications of the various objectives, for example, when the complete 
information is not available until after the event, or when the event involves companies trading in 
different time zones. In order to provide transparency and predictability to the marketplace in all cases, 
MSCI not only publishes general maintenance policies and detailed guidelines for the implementation of 
corporate events, but has also instituted a policy of announcing all changes to its Equity Indices resulting 
from all corporate events in advance of implementing such changes. 
 
Changes resulting from corporate events involve many aspects, including additions, deletions, changes 
in number of shares, changes in industry classification, and changes in Foreign Inclusion Factors (FIFs) 
and/or Domestic Inclusion Factors (DIFs) as a result of updated free float estimates. As a general policy, 
changes resulting from corporate events are implemented in the MSCI Equity Indices as they occur 
simultaneously with the event. In addition, changes in number of shares are consistently coordinated 
with changes in FIFs and/or DIFs to accurately reflect the investability of the underlying securities. 
Changes resulting from corporate events that could not be implemented on or near the effective dates, 
and where no price adjustment factor (PAF) is necessary, are implemented at the following regularly 
scheduled Index Review. Examples of such corporate events include private placements and secondary 
offerings. 
 
As outlined in the MSCI Index Calculation Methodology, the MSCI Equity Indices are calculated using the 
Laspeyres’ concept of a weighted arithmetic average together with the concept of chain-linking. 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
5 of 41 
For certain corporate events, MSCI applies a PAF at the security level in order to neutralize (at least 
partially) the price movement due to the event and keep only the price performance in the index due to 
real market movement. This is done (as per the Laspeyres’ concept) to enable comparison with the 
previous day’s price. Consequently, for such events, changes in number of shares and FIF, if any, are 
reflected one day after the PAF is applied. 
 
Overall, the corporate events methodology can be described in four broad categories:  
 
 Mergers and Acquisitions (M&As) and Spin-offs. 
 Corporate Actions. 
 Other Events Resulting in Changes in Number of Shares and FIFs and/or DIFs. 
 Suspensions and Bankruptcies. 
 
Certain specific aspects of MSCI’s Corporate Events Methodology are treated in appendices at the end of 
this Methodology Book. 
 
The policies and guidelines set forth apply in most corporate events cases. For corporate events not 
described in this Methodology Book or combinations of different types of corporate events and other 
exceptional cases, MSCI reserves the right to determine the most appropriate implementation method 
and announces it prior to the changes becoming effective in the MSCI Equity Indices. 
 
Throughout this document the following abbreviations apply: FIF: Foreign Inclusion Factor, DIF: 
Domestic Inclusion Factor, PAF: Price Adjustment Factor. For other terms, definitions and abbreviations, 
see Appendix I, entitled “PAF Formulas and Definitions” and Appendix II, entitled “Implementation Dates 
for Corporate Events”. 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
6 of 41 
Section 2: Mergers & Acquisitions (M&As) 
 
Mergers and acquisitions are the combination of two or more companies achieved through a mutual 
agreement or through a tender offer. They can be structured in a wide variety of ways with unique 
characteristics and complexities. In a merger, the merging entities cease to exist and a new entity is 
created, while in an acquisition, the acquiror takes over the controlling interest in the acquired 
company. Here, in the large majority of cases, the acquiree subsequently ceases to exist as an 
independent entity, however this is not always the case. 
 
MSCI adheres to consistent, transparent and predictable treatment of mergers and acquisitions both in 
terms of timing of implementation and pricing policy. 
2.1 
Treatment of M&As in the MSCI Universe  
As a general principle, MSCI implements M&As as of the close of the last trading day of the acquired 
entity or merging entities (last offer day for tender offers), regardless of the status of the securities 
(index constituents or non-index constituents) involved in the event. MSCI uses market prices for 
implementation. 
  
This principle applies if all necessary information is available prior to the completion of the event and if 
the liquidity of the relevant constituent(s) is not expected to be significantly diminished on the day of 
implementation. Otherwise, MSCI will determine the most appropriate implementation method and 
announce it prior to the changes becoming effective in the indices. 
 
For US M&As, where the delisting date for the acquired security is not available in advance and the 
completion of the transaction may be delayed due, for example, to the existence of financing conditions, 
MSCI will wait until the official announcement of the completion of the deal to delete the security and 
will give clients advance notice before the deletion.  However, if the delisting date for the acquired 
security is not available in advance, and the transaction is not subject to any financing conditions, MSCI 
will delete such securities shortly after the relevant shareholders' approvals, provided that all other 
conditions required for completion of the transaction have been met. 
If the delisting notice is published late (ie during the last trading day), MSCI may delay the 
implementation and keep the acquiree for one additional day or more in order to give clients sufficient 
advance notice. 
 
If the deletion of securities after the official announcement of the completion of a deal results in 
deleting securities after they have ceased trading. MSCI will use the following deletion prices: 
 the last traded price before the delisting if the acquisition is for cash; or  
 a calculated price based on the terms of the acquisition and the market share price of the acquirer if 
the acquisition is for shares or cash and shares. 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
7 of 41 
For M&As, MSCI generally sends the “confirmed” notice two days before the effective date of the 
implementation. In the situation where new public information, captured by MSCI after the “confirmed” 
notice has been sent, would change the outcome and/or the likelihood of the acquisition to happen or 
delay it, MSCI will generally proceed with the implementation as announced as part of the “confirmed” 
notice. This applies especially in the situation where a reversal of the implementation would be provided 
with too short notice to clients. MSCI reserves the right to handle specific cases differently if more 
appropriate.  
If a security is deleted from an index while the transaction has lapsed or failed, the security will not be 
reinstated immediately after its deletion. It may be reconsidered for index inclusion at the following 
regularly scheduled Index Review. 
 
2.1.1 
M&As with Suspension Periods 
 
M&As that encompass a suspension period prior to the listing of the post-event entity are also 
implemented as of the close of the last trading day using market prices and prior to the suspension of 
the merging entities. During the suspension period, the merged entity will be maintained with a 
calculated price based on the market price of one of the merging entities and the terms of the 
transaction. 
 
2.1.2 
Cross Border M&As 
 
Cross-border M&As involving companies trading in different time zones or for which necessary 
information (such as confirmation of the date of completion, last regulatory approvals, etc.) is lacking 
prior to the event’s completion, can be implemented as of the close of the first trading day of the post-
event entity. In these cases, MSCI will use a calculated price for the acquired or merging entities, based 
on the terms of the transaction,  the price of the acquiring or merged entity and the foreign exchange 
rates, if applicable. When this is not possible, MSCI will carry forward the market price for the acquired 
or merging entities for one additional business day. 
 
2.1.3 
Tender Offers 
 
Tender offers are offers to buy shares of a company, usually at a premium above the shares’ market 
price for cash and/or stock, with the objective of taking control of the acquired company. A tender offer 
may be a result of friendly negotiations or may be unsolicited and possibly unfriendly. 
 
In tender offers, the acquired or merging security is generally deleted from MSCI Indices: 
 
 at the end of the initial offer period, when the offer is likely to be successful and / or if the free float 
of the security is likely to be substantially reduced (this rule is applicable even if the offer is 
extended), or 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
8 of 41 
 once the results of the offer have been officially communicated and the offer has been successful 
and the security’s free float has been substantially reduced, if all required information is not available 
in advance or if the offer’s outcome is uncertain. 
 
The main factors considered by MSCI when assessing the outcome of a tender offer (not in order of 
importance) are: the announcement of the offer as friendly or hostile, a comparison of the offer price to 
the acquired security’s market price, the recommendation by the acquired company’s board of 
directors, the major shareholders’ stated intention whether to tender their shares, the required level of 
acceptance, the existence of pending regulatory approvals, market perception of the transaction, official 
preliminary results if any, and other additional conditions for the offer.  
 
In certain cases, securities may be deleted earlier or using a different date than the last offer day. For 
example: 
 
In the case of tender offers in the United Kingdom, a security is typically deleted two business 
days after the offer is declared unconditional in all respects. 
 
In the case of tender offers in Brazil, a security is typically deleted as of the close of the auction 
date as announced by the Bovespa Stock Exchange. 
 
In the case of tender offers where shareholders receive stock or a combination of stock and 
cash, the acquired security will be generally deleted as of the close of the last trading day even 
when the offer ends after the last trading day of the acquired security. 
 
If a security is deleted from an index, the security will not be reinstated immediately after its deletion 
even when the tender offer is subsequently declared unsuccessful and/or the free float of the security is 
not substantially reduced. It may be reconsidered for index inclusion at the following regularly 
scheduled Index Review. 
 
MSCI uses market prices for implementation.  
 
2.1.4 
Partial tender offers and buyback offers 
 
MSCI defines partial tender offers as the acquisitions of a portion of a company’s shares through shares 
and/or cash, or as share buy-backs that are carried out by means of an offer. 
2.1.4.1 
Fixed price offer 
 
For fixed price partial tender offer opened for a pre-determined period, where the offer price (or the 
terms) is announced prior to the acceptance period, a Price Adjustment Factor (PAF) is applied on the 
ex-date of the offer. In cases where the ex-date is not available, the PAF is applied on the first business 
day after the end of the offer. 
Any changes in the number of shares and subsequent FIF and/or DIF changes are implemented, with 
sufficient advance notice, after the results of the offer have been officially communicated, regardless 
whether or not the calculated PAF is 1. 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
9 of 41 
Withholding taxes, if any, are generally considered in the calculation of the MSCI Net Daily Total Return 
(DTR) Indices provided the PAF applied on the ex-date has a value different than 1 and that sufficient 
information is available publicly in advance. In such cases, MSCI reinvests a negative amount 
corresponding to the withholding tax in the MSCI Net DTR Indices only. This negative reinvestment is 
reflected simultaneously with the PAF on the ex-date of the partial tender offer. 
For further details on the MSCI policy on Partial Tender Offers, especially on the PAF, see Appendix IV, 
entitled “Guidelines Concerning Implementation of Partial Tender Offers”. 
2.1.4.2 
Dutch Auction offer 
 
For Dutch Auctions, where the offer price and the acquired number of shares are generally announced 
after the end of the offer, MSCI implements changes in the number of shares and subsequent FIF and/or 
DIF changes, with sufficient advance notice, after the results have been officially communicated.  
No PAF is applied on the ex-date of the offer, as the offer price is generally unknown prior to the offer 
taking place. 
 
2.1.5 
Hostile M&As 
 
In cases of hostile M&As or when the outcome of an M&A is unlikely to be successful, MSCI will 
implement the changes, if any, only when the results have been officially communicated. This usually 
occurs a few days following the last offer day. MSCI uses market prices for implementation. 
 
2.1.6 
Acquisitions of Unlisted Securities 
 
Changes to a security resulting from large acquisition of non-listed companies or assets and conversion 
of unlisted shares are generally implemented at the next regularly scheduled Index Review following the 
completion of the event. 
 
2.1.7 
Acquisitions of Listed Non-Index Constituents Securities 
 
Increases in a security’s number of shares resulting from acquisition of listed non-index constituent 
securities representing at least 5% of the security’s number of shares are generally implemented as of 
the close of the last trading day of the acquired entity if all necessary information is available prior to 
the completion of the event or if such information is not available prior to the completion of the event, 
as soon as practicable following the completion of the event. Changes representing less than 5% of the 
security’s number of shares are implemented at the next regularly scheduled Index Review following the 
completion of the event.     
2.2 
Late Announcements of the Completion of M&As 
When the completion of an event is announced too late to be reflected as of the close of the last trading 
day of the acquired or merging entities, implementation occurs as of the close of the following day or as 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
10 of 41 
soon as practicable thereafter. In these cases, MSCI uses a calculated price for the acquired or merging 
entities. The calculated price is determined using the terms of the transaction and the price of the 
acquiring or merged entity, or, if not appropriate, using the last trading day’s market price of the 
acquired or merging entities. 
2.3 
Conversions of Share Classes 
Conversions of a share class into another share class resulting in the deletion and/or addition of one or 
more classes of shares are implemented as of the close of the last trading day of the share class to be 
converted. 
2.4 
Pro Forma Float Calculation for M&As 
The post-event free float of an entity resulting from an M&A is estimated on a pro forma basis, unless 
the actual post-event free float is available prior to implementation. In general, any other pending 
shareholder information or shareholder reclassification will also be reflected in the pro forma free float 
estimates related to the event. Resulting changes in FIFs and/or DIFs will be implemented 
simultaneously.  
 
When subsequent public disclosure is made by the company, regarding the new shareholder structure 
following the event, and results in a significantly different free float estimation than that calculated at 
the time of the event, MSCI will update the FIFs and/or DIFs at the following regularly scheduled Index 
Review.  
 
2.4.1 
Pro Forma Float Calculations for M&As 
2.4.4.1 
Cash M&A Transactions  
 
Cash M&A transactions have no impact on the free float of the securities of the acquiring company, as 
no new shares are issued. 
2.4.4.2 
Stock-for-Stock M&A Transactions 
 
In stock-for-stock M&A transactions, the pro forma free float of the securities of the acquiring or 
merged entity is calculated as a weighted average of the free float of the shares of the pre-event 
entities. 
2.4.4.3 
Stock and Cash M&A Transactions 
 
In M&A transactions involving cash and stock, the pro forma free float of the securities of the acquiring 
or merged entity is calculated based on the information provided by the company indicating which 
shareholders will be receiving newly issued shares. If this information is unavailable, then the resulting 
pro forma free float is calculated as a weighted average of the free float of the shares of the pre merging 
entities. 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
11 of 41 
 
2.4.2 
Pro Forma Float Calculations for Partial Tender Offers 
2.4.4.1 
Partial Acquisitions 
 
The post-event free float of a partially acquired security is reduced by an amount corresponding to the 
percentage of free float shares that are acquired.  
2.4.4.2 
Share Buy-Backs 
 
For share buy-backs carried out by means of an offer, MSCI generally assumes that all shareholders 
participate in the share buy-back on a pro rata basis, and as such, the post-event free float of the 
security does not change. When, based on publicly available information, there are shareholders that 
will not participate in the share buy-back, this information is taken into account to determine the post-
event free float.  
2.5 
Spin-Offs  
A spin-off is the distribution of shares in a wholly-owned or a partially-owned company to the parent 
company’s existing shareholders. In some countries, spin-offs are referred to as demergers or 
unbundlings.  
 
On the ex-date of a spin-off, a PAF is applied to the price of the security of the parent company. The PAF 
is calculated based on the terms of the transaction and the market price of the spun-off security. If the 
spun-off entity qualifies for inclusion, it is included as of the close of its first trading day. 
 
In order to decide whether the spun-off entity qualifies for inclusion, the full company market 
capitalization of the spun-off entity is estimated by MSCI prior to the spin-off being effective. These 
estimates are typically based on public information provided by the parent company, including amongst 
others the spin-off prospectus, and estimates from brokers. 
 
In cases of spin-offs of partially-owned companies, the post-event free float of the spun-off entity is 
calculated using a weighted average of the existing shares and the spun-off shares, each at their 
corresponding free float. Any resulting changes to FIFs and/or DIFs are implemented as of the close of 
the ex-date. 
 
When the spun-off security does not trade on the ex-date, a "detached" security is created to avoid a 
drop in the free float-adjusted market capitalization of the parent entity, regardless of whether the 
spun-off security is added or not. The detached security is included until the spun-off security begins 
trading, and is deleted thereafter. Generally, the value of the detached security is equal to the 
difference between the cum price and the ex price of the parent security.  
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
12 of 41 
In certain situations, the spun-off security is not trading on the ex-date on a regular basis but instead is 
trading on a conditional basis or with an “as-if-and-when-issued” price. In those situations, MSCI may 
use this “when-issued” price in its implementation of the spin off on the ex-date, for example in its PAF 
and its estimation of the market capitalization of the spun-off. In addition, MSCI may add the spun-off 
security in the MSCI Indices, provided it qualifies for inclusion, using the “when-issued” prices and then 
the regular price. 
 
For further details on PAFs for spin-offs, see Appendix I, entitled “PAF Formulas and Definitions”. 
2.6 
Historical Links and PAFs 
In cases of mergers, MSCI typically links the price history of one of the merging entities with the price of 
the newly merged entity.  
 
The merging entity that will provide the price history is one for which the factors of continuity with the 
resulting entity are prevailing. These factors of continuity include: relative market capitalization size, 
industry classification, domicile and previous index family status. 
 
A PAF is applied on the first trading day of the merged entity to ensure that the price of the merged 
entity is comparable to the price of the merging entity. For mergers that encompass suspension periods, 
the PAF is applied on the first suspension day of the merged entity.  
 
A PAF is required only when the terms of exchange are different from one for one. The PAF is based on 
the specific terms of the merger. 
 
In cases of spin-offs, MSCI may link the price history of the spun-off security to the security of the parent 
company before the spin-off if factors of continuity of the parent company before the spin-off with the 
spun-off entity are clearly prevailing. Factors of continuity include: relative market capitalization size, 
industry classification, domicile and previous index family status. 
 
When MSCI considers the spun-off entity as the continuation of the parent company, a PAF is applied to 
the market price of the spun-off security on the ex-date of the spin-off. The PAF is calculated based on 
the terms of the transaction and the market price of the security of the parent company. 
 
If appropriate, historical links to existing securities may also be made in cases of conversions of a share 
class into another share class. 
 
For further details on PAFs related to historical links, see Appendix I, entitled “PAF Formulas and 
Definitions”. 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
13 of 41 
Section 3: Corporate Actions 
 
Corporate actions such as splits, stock dividends and rights issues, which affect the price of a security, 
require a price adjustment. In general, the PAF is applied on the ex-date of the event to allow (as per the 
Laspeyres’ concept) security prices to be comparable between the ex-date and the cum date. To do so, 
MSCI adjusts for the value of the right and/or the value of the special assets that are distributed and the 
changes in number of shares and FIF, if any, are reflected as of the close of the ex-date. Corporate 
actions that require a PAF are described below. 
 
In general, corporate actions do not impact the free float of the securities because the distribution of 
new shares is carried out on a pro rata basis to all existing shareholders. Therefore, MSCI will generally 
not implement any pending number of shares and/or free float updates simultaneously with the event.  
 
If a security does not trade for any reason on the ex-date of the corporate action, the event will be 
generally implemented on the day the security resumes trading.  
 
For further details on PAF formulas for corporate actions, see Appendix I, entitled “PAF Formulas and 
Definitions”.  
3.1 
Splits / Reverse Splits /Consolidations  
These events are characterized by a pro rata distribution of shares to shareholders, or a pro rata 
consolidation of shares held by existing shareholders. Market prices and number of shares of securities 
are adjusted accordingly. As no funds flow into or out of the company and its securities, the free float-
adjusted market capitalization value remains unchanged.  
3.2 
Stock Dividends / Bonus Issues 
3.2.1 
Distribution of New Underlying Shares 
 
This event is characterized by a free distribution of new shares to existing shareholders on a pro rata 
basis. Market prices and number of shares of securities are adjusted accordingly. As no funds flow into 
or out of the company and its securities, the free float-adjusted market capitalization value remains 
unchanged. 
 
In Taiwan, stock dividends can be distributed from capital surplus or retained earnings. The portion of 
stock dividends distributed from retained earnings is subject to the default withholding tax rate against 
the par value of each new share. The portion of stock dividends paid out from capital surplus is not 
subject to a withholding tax. In the event that stock dividends are distributed from retained earnings, to 
take into account this withholding tax in the MSCI Indices, MSCI reinvests a negative amount 
corresponding to the withholding tax in the MSCI Net Daily Total Return (DTR) Indices only. This negative 
reinvestment will be reflected simultaneously with the PAF on the ex-date of the stock dividend. For 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
14 of 41 
more information about the treatment of withholding tax on Taiwanese stock dividends, please refer to 
MSCI Index Calculation Methodology, Section 2: MSCI Daily Total Return (DTR) Index Methodology. 
 
Generally, shares issued following stock dividends / bonus issues are entitled to forthcoming cash 
dividends paid by the company, however, in rare cases, the shares issued are not entitled to the 
forthcoming cash dividend. In cases where the shares issued are not entitled to the forthcoming 
dividend, if the cash dividend amount is known before the ex-date of the stock dividend and if the 
impact of the cash dividend is deemed significant, the market price of the security is adjusted with a PAF 
that takes into account the forthcoming cash dividend. 
MSCI uses the gross amount of the cash dividend per share, as announced by the company, in the PAF 
calculation. 
If the cash dividend amount is unknown at the time of the stock dividend’s ex-date, then the market 
price of the security is adjusted with a PAF that does not take into account the forthcoming cash 
dividend (which is a PAF similar to the one applied in case of regular stock dividends). 
 
3.2.2 
Distribution of Other Types of Assets 
 
In the case of a distribution of other types of assets (e.g. bonds, warrants, preferred shares, shares in 
another company), the price of the underlying share is adjusted only when the value of the other asset 
is available on the ex-date. The number of underlying shares generally remains unchanged. 
3.3 
Capital Repayments 
A capital repayment or a return of capital is characterized by a cash distribution from the company’s 
share capital or additional paid-in capital (capital contribution reserve) to its shareholders.  
 
In the case of capital repayments that are deemed to be extraordinary compared to the dividend’s 
policy of the company or to the historical cash distributions, the price of the security is adjusted on the 
ex-date of the event.  
 
Regular capital repayments are treated in the same manner as regular cash dividends paid out of 
retained earnings, and are therefore reinvested on their ex-date in the MSCI Daily Total Return (DTR) 
Indices. For more information about the treatment of regular capital repayments, please refer to MSCI 
Index Calculation Methodology, Section 2: MSCI Daily Total Return (DTR) Index Methodology. 
 
In Taiwan, a cash distribution paid out of capital reserves is considered as regular unless specified by the 
company that the distribution is deemed to be extraordinary. The cash distribution is reinvested in the 
MSCI DTR Indices free of withholding tax. 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
15 of 41 
3.4 
Special Cash Dividends 
A special cash dividend is a distribution of cash made by a company to its shareholders. The funds are 
taken from annual profits, capital and/or reserves. 
 
Special dividends that are greater than or equal to 5% of the cum market price of the underlying security 
are adjusted on the ex-date. 
 
For special cash dividends that are greater than or equal to 5% and subject to withholding taxes, MSCI 
reinvests a negative amount corresponding to the withholding tax in the MSCI Net DTR Indices only. This 
negative amount will be reflected simultaneously with the PAF on the ex-date of the special cash 
dividend. For more information about the treatment of special dividends subject to withholding taxes, 
please refer to section 2.2.4 of the MSCI Index Calculation Methodology. 
3.5 
Rights Issues 
In a rights issue, the company offers existing shareholders the right to purchase new shares, generally at 
a cost below the current market price. Rights issues result in capital inflow, and increase both the 
number of shares and the free float-adjusted market capitalization of a security.  
 
If a security does not trade for any reason on the ex-date of the rights issue, the event will be generally 
implemented on the day the security resumes trading.  
 
MSCI applies a PAF to the market price of the security on the ex-date of a rights issue. The PAF applied 
depends on the market price of the security on the ex-date compared to the subscription price of the 
rights issue. The number of shares is generally increased as of the close of the ex-date, except for rights 
issues which are offered at a premium to the market price and which are not fully underwritten (see 
section 3.5.3 below). The decision whether or not to increase the number of shares of the security as of 
the close of the ex-date is generally announced and confirmed by MSCI before the ex-date based on 
current market prices, among other factors. In such cases, this decision will generally not be changed 
based on actual market prices on the ex-date. 
 
For rights issues made by Australian companies, it is a common practice for companies first to be 
suspended, then to release the rights issue terms, and then to announce when the company will resume 
trading. MSCI generally reflects the rights issue on the first day the securities of the company resume 
trading by adjusting the market prices and number of shares of securities, if the subscription price of the 
new shares is below the market price on that day (as described below under sections 3.5.1.1 and 
3.5.2.1). 
 
If the subscription price of the new shares is greater than the market price on the day the securities of 
the company resume trading, MSCI does not reflect the rights issue on that day (as described below 
under sections 3.5.1.2 and 3.5.2.2).  

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
16 of 41 
 
Generally, shares issued following rights issues are entitled to forthcoming dividends paid by the 
company, however, in certain cases, the shares issued are not entitled to the forthcoming dividend and 
the PAF applied to the security on the right issue’s ex-date is different as explained below.  
 
3.5.1 
Rights for New Underlying Shares with Normal Dividend Entitlement 
3.5.1.1 
Rights for New Underlying Shares (Discount to Market Price) 
 
A PAF is applied to the market price of the security on the ex-date of the rights issue if the subscription 
price of the new shares is below the market price on the ex-date. 
3.5.1.2 
Rights for New Underlying Shares (Premium to Market Price) 
 
If the subscription price of the new shares is greater than or equal to the market price on the ex-date, 
MSCI reflects the rights issue on the ex-date by applying a PAF of 1. 
 
3.5.2 
Rights for New Underlying Shares Not Entitled to Forthcoming Dividend 
 
In the case of a rights issue where the new shares to be issued following the rights issue are not entitled 
to the forthcoming known dividend paid by the company, the market price of the security is adjusted 
with a PAF that takes into account the forthcoming dividend. 
 
If the dividend amount is unknown at the time of the rights issue’s ex-date, then the market price of the 
security is adjusted with a PAF that does not take into account the forthcoming dividend (which is a PAF 
similar to the one applied in case of rights issues where new shares are entitled to forthcoming 
dividend). 
3.5.2.1 
Rights for New Underlying Shares Not Entitled to Forthcoming Dividend (Discount to 
Market Price) 
 
A PAF is applied to the market price of the security on the ex-date of the rights issue if the subscription 
price of the new shares not entitled to the forthcoming dividend is below the market price on the ex-
date minus the dividend per share, provided that the dividend amount is available. MSCI uses the gross 
amount of the dividend per share, as announced by the company, in the PAF calculation. 
3.5.2.2 
Rights for New Underlying Shares Not Entitled to Forthcoming Dividend (Premium to 
Market Price) 
 
If the subscription price of the new shares not entitled to the forthcoming dividend is greater than or 
equal to the market price on the ex-date minus the dividend per share, MSCI reflects the rights issue on 
the ex-date by applying a PAF of 1. 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
17 of 41 
 
For further details on PAF formulas, see Appendix I, entitled “PAF Formulas and Definitions”. 
For the dividend reinvestment in the MSCI Daily Total Return (DTR) Indices on the dividend ex-date, 
MSCI will reinvest the full dividend amount as announced by the company, using the number of shares 
on the day prior to the dividend ex-date which is generally the number of shares post-rights issue, 
according to the MSCI Index Calculation Methodology. 
 
3.5.3 
Number of Shares, FIF and/or DIF Changes Following Rights for New Underlying Shares 
 
In cases of rights of new underlying shares, the decision to increase or not increase the number of 
shares of the security as of the close of the ex-date is generally announced and confirmed by MSCI 
before the ex-date based on current market prices compared to the subscription price, among other 
factors. In such cases, this decision will generally not be changed based on actual market prices on the 
ex-date. 
 
If the subscription price of the new shares is below the market price of the security at the time MSCI 
announces and confirms the implementation of a rights issue, the rights issue is generally assumed to be 
fully subscribed on a pro rata basis and the number of shares of the security is increased accordingly as 
of the close of the ex-date. 
 
If the subscription price of the new shares is greater than or equal to the market price of the security at 
the time MSCI announces and confirms the implementation of a rights issue, the number of shares and 
the FIF and/or DIF of the security is not changed as of the close of the ex-date unless the rights issue is 
fully underwritten (see next paragraph). If the rights issue is not fully underwritten, any increase in the 
number of shares and potential changes in the FIF and/or DIF of the security are generally implemented 
after the results of the rights issue are made available, provided the number of shares increase is above 
5%. Increases in the number of shares smaller than 5% are generally implemented at Index Review. 
 
For rights issues which are fully underwritten, the securities’ number of shares of the company making 
the right issue is generally increased as of the close of the ex-date, regardless if the rights issue is offered 
at a premium or discount to the market price. 
In case the underwriter is a government or a shareholder or group of shareholders of a strategic nature, 
the new shares issued following the rights issue are generally considered as non-free float and the 
securities’ FIF and/or DIF of the company making the rights issue are adjusted at the time of the event. 
In case the underwriters are investment bankers and/or brokers, the new shares issued following the 
rights issue are generally considered on a pro rata basis. 
 
For rights issues affecting a company with several classes of shares that are all index constituents and 
where they are all given the rights to subscribe to new shares for only one class of shares, MSCI will 
reflect the change in the NOS and/or FIF/DIF at the time of the event. 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
18 of 41 
For rights issues where one class of shares, not an index constituent, is given the right to subscribe to 
new shares of an index constituent class of shares, MSCI will generally defer the changes in NOS and/or 
in FIF/DIF coming from the non-index constituent class of shares to the next Index Review following the 
completion of the event. 
For example, a company with 2 classes of shares A and B, where A is an index constituent and B is not an 
index constituent, is doing a right issue where both A and B shares are given the right to subscribe to A 
shares only. MSCI will implement the event by taking into consideration the rights given to holders of 
the A shares only. Changes in the NOS and/or FIF/DIF coming from the B shares holders participation in 
the rights issue will be implemented as part of the next Index Review following the completion of the 
event. 
 
3.5.4 
Rights for Other Types of Assets 
 
In the case of a rights issue entitling the purchase of assets other than the underlying share (e.g. bonds, 
warrants, preferred shares, shares in another company), the price of the underlying share is adjusted 
only if the other asset value or the value of the right is available on the ex-date. The number of 
underlying shares generally remains unchanged. 
3.6 
Redemptions 
Redemptions are characterized by a mandatory pro rata buy back of shares held by existing 
shareholders. The market price of the security is adjusted on the ex-date. The number of shares is 
decreased as of the close of the ex-date, accordingly. The post-event free float of the security does not 
change. 
 
If the redemption is optional for the shareholders, MSCI will treat the corporate event as a partial 
buyback. The market price of the security may be adjusted on the ex-date similarly to partial tender 
offers (see Appendix IV for details on the MSCI policy on Partial Tender Offers). The number of shares 
and free float of the security may change, whether the bought back shares are cancelled or kept as 
treasury by the company. 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
19 of 41 
Section 4: Other Events Resulting in Changes in 
Number of Shares and FIFs and/or DIFs 
 
Changes in number of shares and subsequent FIF and/or DIF changes can also result from other events 
such as share placements and offerings, and debt-to-equity swaps. 
4.1 
Share Placements and Offerings 
MSCI differentiates between the following types of share placements and offerings: 
 
 Primary equity offerings involve the issuance of new shares.  
- 
Public offering or public placement refers to issuance of new shares placed by underwriters to 
institutional or other non-strategic investors.  
- 
Primary private placements involves direct placement of new shares by one company to 
another company, an individual investor, or a group of investors. This direct placement of 
shares is generally accomplished without an underwriter. 
 
 Secondary offerings or block sales do not involve issuance of new shares but involve the distribution 
of current shareholders’ existing shares.  
- 
Secondary offerings are usually pre-announced by the company or by a company’s shareholder 
and open for public subscription during a pre-determined period. These existing shares are 
generally placed by underwriters to institutional or other non-strategic investors. 
- 
Block sales of existing shares or large market transaction done by way of immediate book 
building involving change in strategic ownership are generally announced only when effective 
or with short advance notice and generally do not include an offer prospectus. 
 
4.1.1 
Implementation of Share Placements and Offerings in the MSCI Universe 
 
Changes in number of shares and FIF resulting from primary equity offerings representing at least 5% of 
the security’s number of shares are generally implemented as of the close of the first trading day of the 
new shares, if all necessary information is available at that time. Otherwise, the event is implemented as 
soon as practicable after the relevant information is made available.  
 
Changes in number of shares and FIF resulting from primary equity offerings representing less than 5% 
of the security’s number of shares are implemented at the next regularly scheduled Index Review 
following the completion of the event. 
 
Block sales or large market transactions involving changes in strategic ownership, which are publicly 
announced, made by way of immediate book-building and/or in the absence of an offer prospectus, that 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
20 of 41 
result in significant changes in free float estimates and corresponding FIFs will generally be reflected at 
the following regularly scheduled Index Review. Please refer to section 3.2.3 of the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indices Methodology for more details on changes in the FIF done at Index Reviews. 
 
For public secondary offerings of existing constituents representing at least 5% of the security’s number 
of shares, where possible, MSCI will announce these changes and reflect them shortly after the results 
of the subscription are known. Secondary offerings that, given lack of sufficient notice, were not 
reflected immediately will be implemented at the following regularly scheduled Index Review. 
 
For US securities, increases in number of shares and changes in FIF and/ or DIFs resulting from primary 
equity offerings and from secondary offerings representing at least 5% of the security’s number of 
shares will be implemented as soon as practicable after the offering is priced. Generally, implementation 
takes place as of the close of the same day that the pricing of the shares is made public. If this is not 
possible, the implementation will take place as of the close of the following trading day.  
 
For Latin American and Canadian securities, increases in number of shares and changes in FIF and/or 
DIFs resulting from primary equity offerings and from secondary equity offerings representing at least 
5% of the security’s number of shares are implemented on the settlement date of the offering or shortly 
after, when such information is already publicly available.  Normally, MSCI provides at least two 
business days advance notice before implementation. 
 
For Canadian securities, increases in number of shares and changes in FIF and/or DIFs resulting from 
offerings of subscription receipts are generally implemented at the next regularly scheduled Index 
Review following the conversion of subscription receipts into common shares. Normally, MSCI does not 
include subscription receipts in the number of shares outstanding of the security at the time of the 
offering because the conversion of subscription receipts is usually subject to the completion of 
transactions such as acquisitions of non-listed companies or assets.  
 
For Australian securities, increases in number of shares and changes in FIF and / or DIFs resulting from 
primary equity offerings representing at least 5% of the security’s number of shares are generally 
implemented as soon as the relevant Appendix 3B is made publicly available by the company on the 
Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). The Appendix 3B form provides the relevant and precise 
information on any newly listed shares for Australian companies. 
 
For non-US securities included in the MSCI Micro Cap Indices only, changes in number of shares and FIF 
resulting from primary equity offerings only representing at least 25% of the security’s number of shares 
are generally implemented as of the close of the first trading day of the new shares, if all necessary 
information is available at that time. Otherwise, these offerings are implemented as soon as practicable 
after the relevant information is made available.  

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
21 of 41 
For the changes in number of shares and FIF resulting from primary equity offerings representing less 
than 25% of the security’s number of shares, they are generally implemented at the next regularly 
scheduled Index Review following the completion of the offering. 
 
4.1.2 
Pro Forma Float Calculation for Share Placements and Offerings 
 
In general, shares issued in equity offerings and secondary offerings are assumed to be issued to non-
strategic investors. As such, the post-event free float is calculated on a pro forma basis assuming that all 
these shares are free float. 
 
Shares issued in private placements are considered on a case-by-case basis and the post-event free float 
is determined under the following assumptions: If the shares are issued to institutional or other non-
strategic investors, they are considered as free float, and if issued to strategic investors, they are 
regarded as non-free float. If no information is available as to whom the shares are issued to, these 
shares are generally assumed to be issued to strategic investors. 
4.2 
Debt-to-Equity Swaps 
In general, large debt-to-equity swaps involve the conversion of debt into equity originally not 
convertible at the time of issue. In this case, changes in numbers of shares and subsequent FIF and/or 
DIF changes are implemented as of the close of the first trading day of the newly issued shares, or 
shortly thereafter if all necessary information is available at the time of the swap. In general, shares 
issued in debt-to-equity swaps are assumed to be issued to strategic investors. As such, the post-event 
free float is calculated on a pro forma basis assuming that all these shares are non-free float. 
 
Changes in numbers of shares and subsequent FIF and/or DIF changes due to conversions of convertible 
bonds or other convertible instruments, including periodical conversions of preferred stocks and small 
debt-to-equity swaps are implemented at a following regularly scheduled Index Review. 
4.3 
Optional Dividends 
In the case of an optional dividend, the company offers shareholders the choice of receiving the 
dividend either in cash or in shares.  
 
In the U.S., it is common practice that shareholders electing the cash option receive the dividend 
consideration in cash or shares, or some combination of cash and shares. In such cases, for dividend 
reinvestment purposes, MSCI assumes that investors elect the cash option, therefore the dividend is 
reinvested in the MSCI DTR Indices and price adjustment is not necessary (if the dividend is less than 5% 
of the cum market price of the underlying security). In the event that shareholders electing the cash 
option receive the dividend distribution in shares, or a combination of cash and shares, MSCI will 
increase the number of shares accordingly after results have been officially communicated, with two full 
business days notice.  
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
22 of 41 
In Spain, dividends may be paid in the form of free rights offering shareholders the choice to convert the 
rights into new shares (default option), sell the rights on the market or convert the rights into a fixed 
cash amount that is previously announced by the company. In such cases, MSCI assumes that investors 
elect the option to convert the rights into a fixed cash amount, therefore this dividend amount is 
reinvested in the MSCI DTR Indices. If some shareholders choose to take the stock option, when it is 
confirmed, the number of shares will be increased accordingly at a following regularly scheduled Index 
Review. 
 
In other countries, companies may extend shareholders the choice to participate in certain programs 
(including, but not limited to Dividend Reinvestment Plans and Bonus buyback programs). In these 
cases, MSCI assumes that investors elect the default distribution. If no default distribution is available, 
MSCI assumes that investors elect the cash option. If some shareholders choose to take the stock 
option, when it is confirmed, the number of shares will be increased accordingly at a following regularly 
scheduled Index Review. 
 
Optional Dividends do not impact the free float of the securities because the distribution of new shares 
is assumed to be carried out on a pro rata basis to all existing shareholders. 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
23 of 41 
Section 5: Suspensions, Delisting and Bankruptcies 
 
MSCI will remove from the MSCI Equity Indices as soon as practicable companies that file for bankruptcy 
or protection from their creditors and/or are suspended and for which a return to normal business 
activity and trading is unlikely in the near future. MSCI will treat in the same way companies that fail 
stock exchanges listing requirements with announcements of delisting from the stock exchanges. 
 
MSCI will delete from the MSCI Equity Indices after 40 business days of suspension, where feasible,  
securities of companies facing financial difficulties (e.g., liquidity issues, debt repayment issues, 
companies under legal investigation, etc.) with at least two business days advance notice. Subsequently, 
if and when these securities resume normal trading, they may be considered as a potential addition to 
the MSCI Indices at the next scheduled Semi-Annual Index Review based on the rules described in the 
section 3.1 of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indices Methodology Book. In certain cases, when the 
financial situation of companies may not be transparent to the public, after 40 business days of 
suspension, MSCI may keep these companies longer in the Indices and may delete them at one of the 
following Index Reviews.  
 
Securities of companies suspended due to pending corporate events (e.g., merger, acquisition, etc.), will 
continue to be maintained in the MSCI Indices until they resume trading regardless of the duration of 
the suspension period. 
 
When the primary exchange price is not available, MSCI will delete securities at an over the counter or 
equivalent market price when such a price is available and deemed relevant. If no over the counter or 
equivalent price is available, the security will be deleted at the smallest price (unit or fraction of the 
currency) at which a security can trade on a given exchange.  
 
For securities that are suspended, MSCI will carry forward the market price prior to the suspension 
during the suspension period.  
 
Corporate events (with or without a PAF) occurring during a suspension period are implemented on the 
day the security resumes trading.  
In case of technical suspension, either ordered by the stock exchange or requested by the company, 
where only a temporarily freeze of the market price applies with still trading volume activity, corporate 
events without PAF, such as private placement and secondary offering, are implemented on the 
effective date of the event, whereas corporate events with PAF are implemented on the day the 
technical suspension is lifted. 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
24 of 41 
Section 6: IPOs and Other Early Inclusions 
 
In general, newly listed equity securities are considered for inclusion in the MSCI Equity Indices at the 
time of the Index Reviews. However, in the case of certain MSCI Indices (including the MSCI Global 
Investable Market Indices), IPOs which are significant in size may be considered for an early inclusion (at 
the time of the event, i.e. outside of the Index Reviews), depending on the inclusion criteria applying to 
the relevant MSCI Indices. 
 
If the decision is made to include an IPO early, the inclusion will generally become effective after the 
close of the security’s tenth day of trading. However, in certain cases, another date may be chosen for 
the inclusion to reduce turnover. For example, IPOs for which the effective date of inclusion is either 5 
days before the effective date of a regularly scheduled Index Review or 3 days after, will be made 
effective to coincide with the Index Review. 
 
For companies in the United Kingdom trading on a conditional basis (when-issued trading) prior to its 
listing and unconditional trading, MSCI intends to assess the inclusion of the company in the MSCI 
Indices on its first day of conditional trading.  
 
Securities may also be considered for early inclusion in other significant cases, including but not limited 
to those resulting from a large additional offering of an already listed security or from a consolidation or 
restructuring in the industry giving rise to a large new company. Such cases will be treated in the same 
way as IPOs of significant size. 
 
For further details on the rules on IPOs and other early inclusions in the MSCI Equity Indices, please refer 
to the methodology book of each MSCI Index since each MSCI Index has its own separate index 
construction and maintenance methodology. In the case of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indices, 
please refer to the following sections of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indices Methodology. 
 
 Rules on early inclusions of IPOs and other early inclusions 
See Section “Corporate Events Affecting Non-Index Constituents” 
 Rules on inclusion of new companies to the Market Investable Equity Universes (including IPOs that 
were not added earlier) at the Semi-Annual Index Reviews 
See Section “Updating the Market Investable Equity Universes” 
 Rules on inclusion of new securities with a FIF lower than 0.15 (including IPOs that were not added 
earlier) at Semi-Annual Index Reviews 
See Section “Global Minimum Foreign Inclusion Factor Requirement” 
 Rules on additions of significant new companies to the Standard Index (including large IPOs that were 
not added earlier) at Quarterly Index Reviews 
See Section "Quarterly Index Review of Addition of Companies Currently not constituents of the 
Investable Market Indices” 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
25 of 41 
Section 7: General Announcement Policy for 
Corporate Events 
7.1 
Client Announcements 
All changes resulting from corporate events affecting constituents of the MSCI Equity Indices are 
announced to clients prior to their implementation. 
MSCI uses mainly three statuses to announce these changes: “undetermined”, “expected” and 
“confirmed”. The sequence of the announcements reflects the different stages of a corporate event 
implementation. 
 
MSCI generally sends an “undetermined” or an “expected” announcement at least 10 business days 
prior to the effective date of corporate events. In situations where the effective date is not yet known 
and/or certain aspects of the events are uncertain, MSCI generally sends an “undetermined” 
announcement. MSCI sends an “expected” announcement to describe the implementation and changes 
that are intended to be made when the effective date is known and when the event is likely to be 
successful, provided that the necessary public information concerning the event is available. Note that 
an “expected” announcement is not final.  
For example, in the situation where new public information would change the outcome and/or the 
likelihood of the corporate event to happen as anticipated, MSCI could revise its implementation and 
change its “expected” announcement to an “undetermined” announcement. Similarly, following new 
public information, MSCI can change an “undetermined” announcement to an “expected” 
announcement.  
 
When the effective date is known and provided that all necessary public information concerning the 
event is available, MSCI sends a “confirmed” announcement at least 2 business days prior to the 
effective date. 
 
For certain events, MSCI only sends “confirmed” announcements, especially due to insufficient or lack of 
publicly available information or late company disclosure. 
 
In addition to the three statuses described above, in case a “confirmed” announcement needs to be 
amended, MSCI would send a “correction” announcement with a descriptive text announcement to 
provide details about the changes.  
 
For an exhaustive list of statuses, please refer to the Appendix VI of the MSCI Corporate Events 
Methodology book. 
 
The full list of all new and pending changes is delivered to clients on a daily basis, between 5:30 PM and 
6:00 PM US Eastern Standard Time (EST) through the Advance Corporate Events (ACE) File. 
 
In exceptional cases, events are announced during market hours for same or next day implementation. 
Announcements made by MSCI during market hours are usually linked to late company disclosure of 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
26 of 41 
corporate events or unexpected changes to previously announced corporate events. A descriptive text 
announcement is sent for all corporate events effective on the same day or on the next day. 
 
In general, MSCI also sends text announcement for corporate events effective within the next 48 hours, 
except for US Equities’ equity offerings and market neutral events such as split, reverse split or stock 
dividend. In the case of secondary offerings representing at least 5% of a security’s number of shares for 
existing constituents, these changes will be announced prior to the end of the subscription period when 
possible and a subsequent announcement confirming the details of the event (including the date of 
implementation) will be made as soon as the results are available.  
 
Both primary equity offerings and secondary offerings for US securities, representing at least 5% of the 
security’s number of shares, will be confirmed through an announcement during market hours for next 
day or shortly thereafter implementation, as the completion of the events cannot be confirmed prior to 
the notification of the pricing. 
 
Early deletions of constituents due to bankruptcy or other significant cases are announced as soon as 
practicable prior to their implementation in the MSCI indices. 
 
A more descriptive text announcement may be sent to clients for significant events according to the 
index specific announcement criteria as described in the respective MSCI Equity Indices Methodology 
Books. 
 
For MSCI Global Standard Index constituents, a more descriptive text announcement is sent to clients 
for significant events that meet any of the following criteria: 
 Additions and deletions of constituents. 
 Changes in free float-adjusted market capitalization equal to or larger than USD 5 billion, or with an 
impact of at least 1% of the constituent's underlying country index. 
 
If warranted, MSCI may make additional announcements for events that are complex in nature and for 
which additional clarification could be beneficial.  
 
For corporate events for which a PAF formula utilizes the ex-price (such as rights issues, spin-offs, capital 
repayments, special dividends, etc.), MSCI calculates the PAF value using the opening market price on 
the ex-date of the event (“Opening PAF”) and the PAF value using the closing market price of the stock 
on its ex-date (“Closing PAF”), and announces both via email to clients.  The “Closing PAF” is used in the 
MSCI End of Day Indices calculation. 
 
For further details, see Appendix VI, entitled “Announcement Status and Timing”.  

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
27 of 41 
7.2 
Public Announcements 
All additions and deletions of constituents of the MSCI Equity Indices resulting from corporate events 
are publicly announced prior to their implementation. 
 
In general, other changes resulting from corporate events that affect constituents of the MSCI Equity 
Indices, such as changes in the Foreign Inclusion Factor (FIF) and/or in the number of shares of a 
constituent, are not publicly announced but are announced only to clients. 
 
If warranted, MSCI reserves the right to make public announcements related to corporate events for 
special cases, such as the ineligibility of a security in the MSCI Equity Indices. 
 
The changes are typically announced at least two business days prior to events becoming effective in the 
indices. Public announcements are a summary of the “confirmed” announcements that are made to 
clients. Public announcements are typically made shortly before a “confirmed” client announcement is 
made. 
 
MSCI posts the announcements on its web site, www.msci.com, and on Bloomberg page MSCN. In 
addition, announcements are posted on Reuters public pages MSCIA for MSCI Global Standard Index 
constituents and MSCI Domestic Standard Index constituents. 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
28 of 41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendices 
 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
29 of 41 
Appendix I: PAF Formulas and Definitions 
 
Event Type 
Comments 
PAF = [Cum Price Formula] / [Ex Price Formula]                       
Capital 
Repayment 
 
[P(t) + Cash] / [P(t)] 
Consolidation 
 
[Shares Issued] / [Shares Before] 
Conversion 
Exchange of Shares (PAF applied 
for historical link when terms are 
<> 1for 1) 
[Other Asset Issued] / [Shares Before] 
Merger 
Exchange of Shares (PAF applied 
for historical link when terms are 
<> 1for 1) 
[Other Asset Issued] / [Shares Before] 
Merger 
Exchange of Cash and Shares 
[(P(t) * Other Asset Issued + Cash) / Shares Before] / [P(t)] 
Partial Tender 
Offer 
Exchange of Shares 
If Premium > 20% and Estimated Gain per Share > 5% on t-1 
then  
[(Other Asset P(t) * Other Asset Issued * Estimated Minimum 
Entitlement + (100 - Estimated Minimum Entitlement) * P(t)) / 
100] / [P(t)] 
else PAF=1 
Partial Tender 
Offer 
Against Cash 
If Premium > 20% and Estimated Gain per Share > 5% on t-1 
then 
[(Estimated Minimum Entitlement * Offer Price + (100 - 
Estimated Minimum Entitlement) * P(t)) / 100] / [P(t)]  
else PAF=1 
Reverse Split 
 
[Shares Issued] / [Shares Before] 
Redemption 
 
[((Shares Before – Shares Acquired) * P(t) + Shares Acquired * 
Offer P) / Shares Before] / [P(t)]  
Rights Issue 
Right of New Underlying Shares 
If Issue P is < P(t) then 
[(P(t) * (Shares Before + Shares Issued) – Shares Issued * Issue 
P) / Shares Before] / [P(t)] 
else PAF=1 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
30 of 41 
Event Type 
Comments 
PAF = [Cum Price Formula] / [Ex Price Formula]                       
Rights Issue 
Right of New Underlying Shares 
Not Entitled to Forthcoming 
Dividend 
If Forthcoming Gross Dividend is available and Issue P >= [P(t) – 
Forthcoming Gross Dividend] then PAF=1 
or 
if Forthcoming Gross Dividend is available and Issue P < [P(t) – 
Forthcoming Gross Dividend] then 
[(P(t) * (Shares Before + Shares Issued) – Shares Issued * Issue 
P – Shares Issued * Forthcoming Gross Dividend) / Shares 
Before] / [P(t)] 
or 
if Forthcoming Gross Dividend is not available and Issue P >= 
P(t) then PAF=1 
or 
if Forthcoming Gross Dividend is not available and Issue P < P(t) 
then 
[(P(t) * (Shares Before + Shares Issued) – Shares Issued * Issue 
P) / Shares Before] / [P(t)] 
Rights Issue 
Right of New Underlying Shares 
with Another Asset (bond, 
warrant, preferred, etc.) attached 
If Right P(t) is available then 
[P(t) + Right per Share P(t)] / [P(t)] 
or  
if Other Asset P(t) is available and Issue P < [P(t) + (Other Asset 
Attached * Other Asset P(t)) / Shares Issued] then [((Shares 
Before + Shares Issued) * P(t) + Other Asset Attached * Other 
Asset P(t) - Shares Issued * Issue P) / Shares Before] / [P(t)] 
or  
if Other Asset P(t) is available and Issue P >= [P(t) + (Other 
Asset Attached * Other Asset P(t)) / Shares Issued] then PAF = 1 
or  
if Other Asset P(t) is not available and Issue P < P(t) then [(P(t) * 
(Shares Before + Shares Issued) – Shares Issued * Issue P) / 
Shares Before] / [P(t)] 
or  
if Other Asset P(t) is not available and Issue P >= P(t) then 
PAF=1 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
31 of 41 
Rights Issue 
Right of Another Type of Asset 
(bond, warrant, preferred, etc.) 
If Other Asset P(t) is available and Issue P < Other Asset P(t) 
then 
[(P(t) * Shares Before + (Other Asset P(t) - Issue P) *  
Other Asset Issued) / Shares Before] / [P(t)]  
or 
if Other Asset P(t) is not available but Right P(t) is available 
then 
[P(t) + Right per Share P(t)] / [P(t)] 
or 
if Other Asset P(t) and Right P(t) are not available then PAF=1  
Rights Issue 
Right of Shares in Another Listed 
Security 
If Issue P < Other Security P(t) then  
[P(t) + (Other Security P(t) - Issued P) * Other Security Shares 
Issued / Shares Before] / [P(t)] else PAF=1 
Special Dividend 
PAF is applied for special 
dividends when the impact of 
dividend on the price of the day 
prior the ex-date is greater than 
or equal to 5%. 
If impact of Special Div on P(t-1) >=5%, then [P(t) + Special Div] 
/ [P(t)] 
Spin-off 
Spun-off traded on the ex-date 
[P(t) + Spun Off P(t) * Spun Off Shares Issued / Shares Before] / 
[P(t)] 
Spin-off 
Spun-off NOT traded on the ex-
date (creation of a 'detached' 
security) 
[P(t-1)] / [P(t)] 
Split 
 
[Shares Issued] / [Shares Before] 
Stock 
Stock Dividend / Bonus / Scrip 
Issue / Stock 
[Shares Issued + Shares Before] / [Shares Before] 
Stock 
Stock Dividend Not Entitled to 
Forthcoming Dividend 
[[(Shares Issued + Shares Before) * P(t) - (Shares Issued * 
Forthcoming Gross Cash Dividend)] / Shares Before] / [P(t)] 
Stock 
Distribution of Another Type of 
Asset (bond, warrant, preferred, 
etc.) 
If Other Asset P(t) is not available then PAF=1  
else 
[(P(t) * Shares Before + Other Asset P(t) * Other Asset Issued) / 
Shares Before] / [P(t)] 
Stock 
Distribution of New Underlying 
Shares with Warrants attached 
If Other Asset P(t) is not available then  
[Shares Issued + Shares Before] / [Shares Before] 
 else 
[(P(t) * (Shares Issued + Shares Before) + Other Asset P(t) * 
Other Asset Issued)/ Shares Before] / [P(t)] 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
32 of 41 
Terms/abbreviations 
Definitions 
Cash 
Amount shareholders are entitled to 
Cum Date 
Day prior to the ex-date 
Estimated gain per share 
{[(Offer price - P(t-1)) * estimated minimum entitlement] / P(t-1)} * 100 
Estimated Minimum Entitlement 
Minimum percentage of shareholders' holdings that will be accepted by the 
acquirer assuming all shareholders tender their shares, except for the acquirer 
and the shareholders who explicitly state that they will not participate in the 
partial tender offer. 
Ex Date 
Day on which a security is traded without a previously declared dividend, 
distribution, or other right 
Issue P 
Issue price 
Offer P 
Offer price 
Other Asset Issued 
Number of other asset distributed (e.g. warrant, convertible bond) 
Other Asset P(t) 
Closing price of the other asset on the ex-date 
P(t) 
Closing price on the ex-date 
P(t-1) 
Closing price on the cum date (ex-date -1) 
Premium 
[(Offer price - P(t-1)) / P(t-1)] * 100 
 
Terms/abbreviations 
Definitions 
Right P(t) 
Closing right price on the ex-date 
Shares Before 
Number of shares shareholders need to hold before the event 
Shares Issued 
Number of shares distributed 
Shares Acquired 
Number of shares acquired 
Forthcoming Gross Dividend 
Gross dividend per share paid by the company following another event. In 
certain cases of rights issues and stock dividends, the newly issued shares are 
not entitled to the dividend which is ex after the rights issue / stock dividend 
ex-date. 
Special Div 
Amount shareholders are entitled to 
Spun Off P(t) 
Closing price of the spun off security on the ex-date 
Spun Off Shares Issued 
Number of spun off security shares distributed 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
33 of 41 
Appendix II: Implementation Dates for Corporate 
Events 
 
MSCI uses several terms to specify the timing of corporate events implementation: 
 
As of the close of date (t-1) indicates that the changes are implemented after the close on day t-1.  For 
example, if a security is deleted as of the close of t-1, the security still appears in the index on the day t-
1. 
 
Effective date/Ex-date (t) indicates the date on which the changes are reflected. For example, if a 
security is deleted as of the close of t-1, the security no longer appears in the index on the effective date 
(t). It also indicates the date on which a security is traded without a previously declared dividend, 
distribution, or other right. 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
34 of 41 
Appendix III: Corporate Events Occurring on 
Saturdays and Sundays 
 
A selected list of MSCI Indices is calculated on Saturdays and Sundays to reflect the performance of the 
markets open on this day. The Saturday and Sunday index performances capture the price changes and 
reflect corporate events effective on this day. 
In case of corporate events occurring on Saturdays and where a Price Adjustment Factor (PAF) is 
needed, the PAF is applied to the market price of the security on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. If 
the security does not trade on Monday, the Sunday closing market price is carried forward to 
Monday, including the PAF. 
In case of corporate events occurring on Sundays and where a PAF is needed, the PAF is applied to the 
market price of the security on Sunday and Monday. If the security does not trade on Monday, the 
Sunday closing market price is carried forward to Monday, including the PAF. 
Changes in the security’s number of shares, FIFs and/or DIFs due to corporate events occurring on 
Saturdays or Sundays are implemented as of the close of Monday, regardless of whether the corporate 
event requires the application of a PAF on Saturday and/or Sunday or not. 
For details on the Saturday/Sunday Index Calculation Methodology, refer to Appendix I of the MSCI 
Index Calculation Methodology. 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
35 of 41 
Appendix IV: Guidelines Concerning Implementation 
of Partial Tender Offers  
Summary 
As a general principle, MSCI applies a PAF for partial tender offers on the ex-date when the following 
criteria are fulfilled: 
- The premium is greater than 20%, and 
- The estimated gain per share is greater than 5%. 
If at least 1 of the 2 conditions is not met (i.e. premium is < 20% and/or estimated gain per share < 5%), 
MSCI applies a PAF of 1. 
In cases where the ex-date is not available, the PAF is applied on the first business day after the end of 
the offer. 
Changes in the NOS and/or FIF are generally implemented following the results of the offer regardless 
the PAF applied on the ex-date is 1 or not. 
 
PAF formula in detail 
If premium > 20% AND estimated gain per share > 5% on t-1 then 
PAF = [(estimated minimum entitlement * offer price + (100 - estimated minimum entitlement) * P(t)) / 
100] / [P(t)] 
Else PAF = 1 
 
Definitions 
Premium in % = [(offer price - P(t-1)) / P(t-1)] * 100 
Estimated gain per share in % = {[(offer price - P(t-1)) * estimated minimum entitlement] / P(t-1)} * 100 
P(t-1) is the closing price on the day prior to the ex-date 
P(t) is the closing price on the ex-date 
 
Estimated minimum entitlement = “NOS sought by acquirer” / “NOS free to participate in the offer” 
In other words, the estimated minimum entitlement is the minimum percentage of shareholders 
holdings that will be accepted by the acquiror assuming all shareholders tender their shares, except for 
the acquiror and the shareholders who explicitly state that they will not participate in the partial tender 
offer. 
 
Example 
A company is buying back 10% of its shares at an offer price of USD 90. One shareholder, owning 20% of 
the shares publicly declares that he will not participate in the offer. In addition, the company already 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
36 of 41 
owns 5% of treasury shares that will not participate in the offer. The closing market price on the day 
prior to the ex-date is USD 60 and the closing price on the ex-date is USD 55. 
 
Based on the information available in this example, the estimated minimum entitlement, the premium 
and the estimated gain per share are calculated as follows: 
Estimated minimum entitlement 
10% / (100% - 20% - 5%) = 13.33% 
Premium 
(90-60) / 60 = 50% 
Estimated gain per share 
[(90-60) * 13.33%] / 60 = 6.66% 
 
As the premium is above 20% and the estimated gain per share is above 5%, meaning both conditions 
are met, the PAF applied on the ex-date is calculated as follows: 
[(13.33 * 90 + (100 – 13.33) * 55) / 100] / [55] = 1.085 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
37 of 41 
Appendix V: Clarification Regarding Effective Dates in 
Option P, Q, T, US Announcements  
 
This appendix provides clarification regarding the effective date field in the Option P, Q, T, US 
announcements following the changes in format effective as of June 2, 2003. 
 
MSCI has enhanced the content of its Option P, Q, T, US announcements with additional fields to make 
them comparable to the data provided in the daily Advance Corporate Events (ACE) files. 
 
In general, the effective date in the header of the Option P, Q, T, US announcement means that all 
related changes are reflected in the indices as of the open of the specified date, unless indicated 
otherwise in the text of the announcement. This is typically the case for most mergers and acquisitions. 
 
In some exceptional cases, such as rights issues, stock dividends and splits, the effective date in the 
header of the Option P, Q, T, US announcement represents the ex-date (or ex-entitlement date) of the 
event. A PAF is applied on the ex-date (effective date), and the number of shares is changed 
as of the close of the effective date. 
 
MSCI will continue to use "as of the close of" in the text of the announcements to clarify if the changes 
are effective as of the open or as of the close of the specified date. 
 
For more details regarding "as of the close of", "ex-date" or "effective date", please refer to Appendix II 
entitled "Implementation Dates for Corporate Events" in the MSCI Corporate Events Methodology Book. 
 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
38 of 41 
Appendix VI: Announcement Status and Timing  
 
All changes resulting from corporate events affecting constituents of the MSCI Equity Indices are 
announced prior to their implementation. The changes can have the following status: 
Status 
Description 
Timing 
Acknowledged 
The "Acknowledged" status is used to indicate that MSCI 
is aware of an upcoming event. With this status, MSCI 
will not disclose any details of the treatment of the 
corporate event.                                                                                                                    
The "Acknowledged" status is used for all corporate 
events (mergers, acquisitions, spin off, buybacks, and 
conversions), except for corporate actions resulting in a 
price adjustment (stock, split, rights, etc.), where an 
"Expected" or "Undetermined" announcement will be 
sent. For IPOs, a "Confirmed" announcement will be 
sent. 
As early as practicable. 
Undetermined 
The "Undetermined" status will be used when the event 
is conditional upon uncertain events (e.g.: the outcome 
of the tender offer is uncertain), or the effective date is 
not known. MSCI describes the event and how it intends 
to implement it if and when the event becomes effective. 
Undetermined announcements 
will be sent when there is some 
uncertainty that the event will 
take place. 
Expected 
MSCI sends an “expected” announcement to describe 
the implementation and changes that are intended to be 
made when the effective date is known and when MSCI 
considers that an event is likely to be successful, 
provided 
that 
the 
necessary 
public 
information 
concerning the event is available 
 
Generally 10 business days 
before the effective date. 
Confirmed 
The "Confirmed" status will be used when all details for 
the implementation of the security's change have been 
finalized. 
Confirmed announcement is 
generally sent 2 days before the 
effective date. 
Implemented 
The "Implemented" status will be used when the change 
has been implemented in the index. 
The event will remain in the 
Advance Corporate Events (ACE) 
file 2 days after its effective 
date. 
Canceled 
The "Canceled" status will be used when a previously 
announced event does not occur. 
As early as practicable. 
Correction 
The "Correction" status will be used when a modification 
needs to be made to an event that was previously 
“Confirmed”.  
As early as practicable. 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
39 of 41 
Appendix VII: Additional Corporate Events Rules 
Applying to the MSCI Global Investable Market Indices 
 
Corporate events may have different implications depending on the specificities for constructing and 
maintaining each MSCI Index. Such specificities, if any, are described in the respective methodology 
book of each MSCI Index. 
 
Corporate events rules used for the maintenance of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indices include 
the rules described in this methodology book as well as the rules described in Section 3 “Maintaining the 
MSCI Global Investable Market Indices” of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indices Methodology. 
Please refer to the following sections, among others, of the MSCI Global Investable Market Indices 
Methodology. 
 
 Changes in FIF, NOS and GICS due to corporate events 
See Section 3.3 (changes made at the time of the event) and Section 3.2 (changes made at Index 
Reviews) 
 Size and style segment reviews due to corporate events 
See Section 3.3 (at the time of the event) as well as Sections 3.1 and 3.2 (at Index Reviews) 
 Deletions of securities from the MSCI Global Investable Market Indices due to corporate events 
See Section 3.3 
 Announcement policy 
See Section 3.4 
 
For details on rules for the treatment of IPOs in the MSCI Global Investable Market Indices, see Section 6 
of this methodology book “IPOs and Other Early Inclusions”.

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
40 of 41 
May 2012 updates: 
Section 2.1.3 Tender Offers 
 clarification on securities that could be deleted before the end of an offer 
Section 2.1.5: Acquisition of unlisted securities 
 updated 
Section 3.5.3: Number of Shares, FIF and/or DIF Changes Following Rights for New Underlying Shares 
 third paragraph updated 
Section 4.1.1: Implementation of Share Placements and Offerings in the MSCI Universe 
 new paragraph for Latin American and Canadian offerings 
Section 5: Suspensions, Delistings and Bankruptcies 
 first paragraph updated 
 
June 2012 updates: 
Section 2.1.4 Partial Tender Offers 
 section updated 
Appendix III: Corporate Events Occurring on Saturdays and Sundays 
 updated to incorporate Saturday calculation 
Appendix IV: Guidelines Concerning Implementation of Partial Tender Offers 
 updated 
 
August 2012 updates: 
Section 2.1: Treatment of M&As in the MSCI Indices 
 update on US M&As 
 new paragraph on treatment of delayed deals 
Section 2.1.2 Cross Borders M&As 
 foreign exchange rate is used, if applicable 
Section 2.1.3 Tender offers 
 Brazilian tender offers 
Section 2.5 Spin offs 
 “When-issued” prices 
Section 3.3 Capital Repayments 
 updated for Taiwan capital repayments 
 

 
  
 
 
MSCI Data Operations & Technology 
msci.com 
© 2012 MSCI Inc. All rights reserved.  
Please refer to the disclaimer at the end of this document 
 
Index Methodology 
MSCI Corporate Events Methodology 
August 2012 
 
41 of 41 
Client Service Information is Available 24 Hours a Day 
clientservice@msci.com 
Notice and Disclaimer 
 This document and all of the information contained in it, including without limitation all text, data, graphs, charts (collectively, the “Information”) is the property of MSCl Inc. or its 
subsidiaries (collectively, “MSCI”), or MSCI’s licensors, direct or indirect suppliers or any third party involved in making or compiling any Information (collectively, with MSCI, the 
“Information Providers”) and is provided for informational purposes only.  The Information may not be reproduced or redisseminated in whole or in part without prior written permission 
from MSCI.  
 The Information may not be used to create derivative works or to verify or correct other data or information.   For example (but without limitation), the Information many not be used to 
create indices, databases, risk models, analytics, software, or in connection with the issuing, offering, sponsoring, managing or marketing of any securities, portfolios, financial products or 
other investment vehicles utilizing or based on, linked to, tracking or otherwise derived from the Information or any other MSCI data, information, products or services.   
 The user of the Information assumes the entire risk of any use it may make or permit to be made of the Information.  NONE OF THE INFORMATION PROVIDERS MAKES ANY EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION (OR THE RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED BY THE USE THEREOF), AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT 
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EACH INFORMATION PROVIDER EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
ORIGINALITY, ACCURACY, TIMELINESS, NON-INFRINGEMENT, COMPLETENESS, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE) WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE 
INFORMATION. 
 Without limiting any of the foregoing and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, in no event shall any Information Provider have any liability regarding any of the 
Information for any direct, indirect, special, punitive, consequential (including lost profits) or any other damages even if notified of the possibility of such damages. The foregoing shall not 
exclude or limit any liability that may not by applicable law be excluded or limited, including without limitation (as applicable), any liability for death or personal injury to the extent that 
such injury results from the negligence or wilful default of itself, its servants, agents or sub-contractors.   
 Information containing any historical information, data or analysis should not be taken as an indication or guarantee of any future performance, analysis, forecast or prediction.  Past 
performance does not guarantee future results. 
 None of the Information constitutes an offer to sell (or a solicitation of an offer to buy), any security, financial product or other investment vehicle or any trading strategy.   
 MSCI’s indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Institutional Shareholder Services, Inc. (“ISS”) is a Registered Investment Adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  Except with respect 
to any applicable products or services from ISS (including applicable products or services from MSCI ESG Research Information, which are provided by ISS), none of MSCI’s products or 
services recommends, endorses, approves or otherwise expresses any opinion regarding any issuer, securities, financial products or instruments or trading strategies and none of MSCI’s 
products or services is intended to constitute investment advice or a recommendation to make (or refrain from making) any kind of investment decision and may not be relied on as such. 
 The MSCI ESG Indices use ratings and other data, analysis and information from MSCI ESG Research.  MSCI ESG Research is produced by ISS or its subsidiaries.  Issuers mentioned or 
included in any MSCI ESG Research materials may be a client of MSCI, ISS, or another MSCI subsidiary, or the parent of, or affiliated with, a client of MSCI, ISS, or another MSCI subsidiary, 
including ISS Corporate Services, Inc., which provides tools and services to issuers.  MSCI ESG Research materials, including materials utilized in any MSCI ESG Indices or other products, 
have not been submitted to, nor received approval from, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body. 
 Any use of or access to products, services or information of MSCI requires a license from MSCI.  MSCI, Barra, RiskMetrics, ISS, CFRA, FEA, and other MSCI brands and product names are 
the trademarks, service marks, or registered trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its subsidiaries in the United States and other jurisdictions.  The Global Industry Classification Standard 
(GICS) was developed by and is the exclusive property of MSCI and Standard & Poor’s.  “Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS)” is a service mark of MSCI and Standard & Poor’s. 
About MSCI  
MSCI Inc. is a leading provider of investment decision support tools to investors globally, including asset managers, banks, hedge funds and pension funds. MSCI 
products and services include indices, portfolio risk and performance analytics, and governance tools.  
The company’s flagship product offerings are: the MSCI indices which include over 148,000 daily indices covering more than 70 countries; Barra portfolio risk and 
performance analytics covering global equity and fixed income markets; RiskMetrics market and credit risk analytics; ISS governance research and outsourced proxy 
voting and reporting services; FEA valuation models and risk management software for the energy and commodities markets; and CFRA forensic accounting risk 
research, legal/regulatory risk assessment, and due-diligence. MSCI is headquartered in New York, with research and commercial offices around the world. 
Americas 
 
Europe, Middle East & Africa 
Asia Pacific 
 
Americas 
Atlanta 
Boston 
Chicago 
Montreal 
Monterrey 
New York 
San Francisco 
Sao Paulo 
Stamford 
Toronto 
1.888.588.4567 (toll free)  
+ 1.404.551.3212 
+ 1.617.532.0920 
+ 1.312.675.0545 
+ 1.514.847.7506 
+ 52.81.1253.4020 
+ 1.212.804.3901 
+ 1.415.836.8800 
+ 55.11.3706.1360 
+1.203.325.5630 
+ 1.416.628.1007 
Cape Town 
Frankfurt 
Geneva 
London 
Milan 
Paris 
 
+ 27.21.673.0100 
+ 49.69.133.859.00 
+ 41.22.817.9777 
+ 44.20.7618.2222 
+ 39.02.5849.0415 
0800.91.59.17 (toll free) 
 
China North 
China South 
Hong Kong 
Seoul 
Singapore 
Sydney 
Tokyo 
10800.852.1032 (toll free)  
10800.152.1032 (toll free)  
+ 852.2844.9333 
798.8521.3392 (toll free) 
800.852.3749 (toll free) 
+ 61.2.9033.9333 
+ 81.3.5226.8222 

